# How to improve your sales skills, Even if you're not a salesperson.

At some point in your career, even if you're not a salesperson, you're
going to have to sell something - whether it's your idea, your team, or
yourself. So how can you improve your sales skills, especially if you
don't pitch people often? What should you focus on first? And what
should you do if you lose a sale?

## What the expert say?
Selling has a bad rap, says Thomas Steenburgh, professor at the
University of Virginia Darden School of business. "Very few parents say
they want their kids to grow up to be a salesperson," he says. His MBA
students are no different. "Many of them tell me that sales is something
they never want to do in their careers." And yet, he says, "Sales is the
most fundamental skill." Scott Edinger, the founder of Edinger
Consulting Group and the author of "The Hidden Leader", says that the
resistance to sales stems from an "antiquated idea that selling is
pushing people to buy something they don't want, don't need, or can't
afford." But that notion is outdated. "Selling is moving somebody else
to action," he says. And that is part and parcel of professional life.

"If you look at things you do over the course of your day, from internal
meeting with colleagues to clients calls, almost all of your
interactions involve some form of selling." Here's how to get better at
it.

### Reflect
Getting comfortable with sales requires an "Understanding of what
selling is," say Edinger. Move beyond the used car salesman cliche.
"Selling is not about putting undue presure on and talking incessantly,"
all while "wearing a light blue polyester suit," he say. Rather, selling
"is persuading, inspiring, and leading." Your goal is "to work in
collaboration" with a client or colleague "to drive change." To get into
the right mindset, Steenburgh recommends reflecting on your past
positive experiences as a customer. "When you think about the sales
interactions you've had in your life, it's almost like the salesperson
wasn't there," he says. The seller was just "a person who'd taken a
genuine interest in your problem and was helping you solve it."


### Put yourself in your counterpart's shoe.
"People buy for two reasons," says Steenburgh. They either have a
business problem that needs to be solved or they have a personal need,
such as a desire to move up in the organization" that your idea helps
accelerate. It's your job to figure out your customer's motivations: 
"What would it take to get your boss to sigh off on a project or to get
your clients excited about what you have to offer?" says Edinger. Do
your research by talking with the people you're trying to win over, and
other in the know, well in advance of making your proposal. Think about
what  information you need to uncover. "Be empathetic. Focus on
understanding the other party - what they need to accomplish and how
they measure success." This will help you tailor your recommendations.

### Plan and practice
Crafting your sales pitch should not be a solo eneavor. Edinger suggests
enlisting "a trusted peer or manager" to "role-play" so you can "see
what works and what doesn't." Your goal is "to understand how the flow
of these conversations feeels and sounds." Your colleague can coach you
on how you come across and how to improve your delivery. Steenburgh
recommends practicing in front of novices. "Talk to someone who is not
an expert in the field, such as your grandmother," he says. "Her
questions will help you frame the problem." Chances are, your first
attempt at a pitch will miss the mark. "People spend so much time in
their own head, thinking about their idea, that they fail to draw the
connection to how the product will improve someone else's life," he
says.

### Stay clam and dont' brag.
Even with meticulous preparation, pitch can go wary. Your adrenaline is
surging, so you may end up talking too much or failing to get the point
quickly. There is no easy solution, says Edinger. His advice: "Chill
out." Try to relax your facial expression" and keep your body language 
confident and loose. Check your tone and pacing. "Nobody wants to be
lectured. Be respectful" but not overly deferential, he adds. "Establish
a peer-level interaction. You're not begging on bended knee." Another
common problem, says Steenbergh, is "letting your ego get in the way."
Sometimes, you get caught up in "talking about your strengths, and not
what your counterpart wants," he says. "At best, the person gets bored.
And worst, it sends a message that you're [not right] for the job."

### Close the deal
Being good at selling means you both "understand the 'customer' and
understand the path they need to go through to buy," says Steenburgh.
It's rare that anyone will immediately bite upon hearing your pitch - no
matter how brilliant it is. Your counterpart "might need to assess the
financial impact of such a purchase," review competitors, or check with
a higher-up before signing off. Regardless of what that next phase may
be, you should "ask permission to move forward." He recommmends saying
something like "Are you ready to take the next step? What else can I do
to help you make this decision?" Be "flexible" and willing to
brainstorm, says Edinger. Think about ways you can "work together in
collaboration to improve a product, service, or idea." If the answer is
no, or not yet, use the opportunty to gently probe. "Is the new idea too
threatening? Too difficult? Or too expensive?"

### Think long term
Veteran salespeople know it's possible that "you're going to fail more
than you will succeed," says Steenburgh. "You just have to have the guts
to keep  moving forward

