# Taming the Bull

"Toelee Wong was crippled for allowing Duke Ling's prize bull to run
amok in the kilns," Said Ho Chi, in answer to his follow disciple's
question. "Indeed, it is said, that he lost a toe for every one of the
ten Imperial vases that were smashed."

"In truth it was through having his feet stamped on by the mighty bull
while he bravely fought to recapture it," said their Patriarch, upon
overhearing their discourse.

"By my ancestors," exclaimed Ho Chi "What courage!"
"Indeed yes," said Yen Tzu, "but fighting yang with yang is not the way
to communicate and overcome."

"It is said that yin and yang connect all," said Ho Chi, "but please
explain how, in the context of such a difficult situation."

"The mutual seeking of yin and yang depends on opening and closing."
began the Patriarch. "Opening and closing are the natural principles
that influence the rise and fall in all of heaven an earth's ten
thousand things, including man and beast. Yin and yang should always be
harmonious. For the opposite of one, redresses the balances of the
other."

"When the bull was in yang mode, so was Toeless Wong. Rather than
adopting yin mode, he fought charge with charge. He pitted his
aggression against the bull's aggression. When yang is hard and
aggressive, only the yielding softness of yin can clam it. As a seasoned
keeper, Wong knew full well how to clam the bull. But seeing the
crashing commotion before him he forgot, and was as a fool rushing in.
In doing so, he was no different to the bull."

"Yin and yang modes can be taught to be switched on or off according to
what is needed. Yin or yang be used as appropriate to tame the part
within all of us which can be likened to a charging bull, and to soften
the raging bull within other who appear to be attacking us. Men do not
mirror themselves in running water; they can only see themselves in
still water. Only what is still, can clam to stillness others."

- 

"Always remember that it is important to know when to speak and when to
remain silent. When you want to hear other' voices, return to silence;
when you want to be expansive, be withdrawn; when you want to rise,
lower yourself; when you want to take, give; and when you want to
overcome, give way."

-
All through school we're taught to read, write and speak, but apart from
how to listen critically, we are never taught to really communicate. Yet
the way in which we communicate inwardly and outwardly directly
influences the quality of our relationship with others, as well as with
ourselves. True communication, however, goes way beyond our variety of
listening skills learned through tuition.

- 
All of as have a dormant bull within us, desperate to be heard and we
usually allow another person to turn it loose.

Those people who are prone to argue, will claim that any heated
intercourse, be it debate, discussion or family tiff, requires such
stimulation. Healthy arguments making for healthy relationships is a
myth, however, as when two people allow themselves to become angry
towards each other, there are two losers. In the same way that it is
pointless to fight fire with fire, being angry with other burns our
valuable psychic body into a charred shell.

-
Understand the nature of how things interact helps us to harmonise those
universal forces that can then strengthen us, instead of allowing an
imbalance which hurts us. The very nature of communicating with
ourselves through listening to our inner world, for example, reflects
directly on our interpersonal communication with other. The principle
for listening is the same as evaluation. You cannot evaluate others
until you have successfully evaluated yourself; and you cannot
effectively listen externally until you have mastered listening
internally.

-
What is not said can be clearly audible in our inner stillness, and what
is not said is more valuable to us than whatever is being said. Through
inward and outward stillness we become able to listen to others without
influencing hat they say  by our reactions. For example, the speech of
others is yang movement, for it is outward one's own silence is yin
stillness, for it is receptive. When the statement of another are
inconsistent, if we reflect and enquire introspectively, then an
appropriate response will be forthcoming.

-
To use stillness to listen to what is being voiced, means exercising our
ability to look at matters from all angles, without entertaining any
associations or attachments that may affect our understanding. Yang is
opening up, yin is closing down. Opening up involves assessing people's
feelings, closing down involves making sure of their sincerity, and not
believing that we must get our point in first, particularly during an
argument.

-
