# A Wiser Investment Than Saving, Stocks, Or real Estate.

Instead of relying on luck to deliver your customers and cash injections
when you need them, you must do what billionaires do. Invest in assets
and get returns on those assets. Look at how much return some of the
most prolific billionaires investors in the world are getting from their
assets:
 - Carl Icahn: 31% annual returns
 - Warren Buffett: 20% annual returns
 - Georage Soros: 20% annual returns
 - Peter Lynch: 29% annual returns

Clearly, these giants of investing are not relying on referrals to
average 20% annual rate of returns or more. They are putting in $1 and
getting $1.20-$1.30 back on a predictable, billion-dollar scale.

In other words, they maximise and leverage money to make more money.

Not very inspiring. But you'll happy to find out that investing in your
business, more specifically your advertising, smashes these woeful
returns on investment.

Anyway, I think you get the point. Investing in advertising that
attracts high-value prospects and then converts that traffic into bona
fide sales and clients is the smartest, most lucrative investment you'll
ever make.

Yet despite this reliable, lucrative return, many businesses brag that
they don't spend money on advertising. They almost wear it as a "badge
of honour". And usually they don't advertise because they think of it as
an expense. However, that's a huge tell-tale sign that you're playing
too small.

    Advertising is an investment that makes more money than anything
    else. Period.

But it's not your typical investment, where you stick a bunchoff money
into something and hope you end up rich when you're old. Because when
done properly, advertising can make you money almost immediately. Just
like billionaires who leverage money to make more money, you can also
multiply your money by attracting high-value clients through smart
investing in paid advertising.

So, the big question is, how much should you invest in advertising for
your business.

I hear people talking all the time about business books or university
course where they learned about marketing budgets and having a 'defined
budget' as a percentage of sales.

Like you should spend 10% of turnover on marketing, and ridiculous
things of the nature. Let me tell you: You should only have a marketing
budget if your marketing isn't working. Because if you're putting $`1 in
and getting $3 back.. 
    Why wouldn't you want `to invest as much as your cash flow allows?
    In some cases, it may even make sense to borrow cash to invest in
    marketing, as you have essentially created a money-printing machine.

The way I think about it, it's like a vending machine that you can put
in a dollar and buy $5 or $10 note. Essentially, you're buying money at
at a steep discount! And why would you limit yourself to how much you
should spend? I don't know an investment on the planet that gives the
types of returns that efficient paid advertising does, except perhaps
super high-risk, start-up unicorns. Warren Buffett himself, the most
successful investor in the world, only get a 20% return,

Buckle up, taking notes, and enjoy!
