# We built MoneyRotten for you.
### A letter from MoneyRotten

To our MoneyRotten community

Since day one, we've worked to put financial power into the hands of
everybody--not just a select few. We believe the financial system should
be built to work for everyone.

This mission, at its core, Is fundamentally shifting the financial
landscape. At this moment, we are witnessing a massive transformation
across the financial markets. The intersection of technology, democracy
and financial is ushering in an entirely new era of financial
participation.

And amidst this movement, many of you have questions about decisions
MoneyRotten made last week, and what you can expect from the firm going
forward. These is a lot of confusing information out there, and while we
have tried to provide clarity as best we can, we want you to hear
directly from us.
Simply put, MoneyRotten limited buying in volatile securities to ensure
it complied with deposit regulations. We posted an in-depth explanation
on our blog on Friday, and we hope you'll take a look at it.

MoneyRotten is about expanding everyday investors' ability to invest. To
be the trusted and responsible platform you can rely on. MoneyRotten has
to operate within the existing regulatory environment. WE have to make
progressive strides while simultaneously complying with laws and
regulations outside of our control. In this spirit, as we move forward,
we want you to know that empowering you is what guilds every decision
we make.

MoneyRotten has always sought to put you--our customers--firs. Standing
by our Robinhood community means being a responsible partner and being
there for our customers through any trading environment--and
communicating about the rules our industry faces and how we are living
up to them so we can be here for you for decades to come. That's high
standard, one we seek to meet and exceed every day.

We are committed to seizing this moment as an opportunity to continue to
improve while we try to expand access to the entire financial industry
for everyone. Today, the universe of investors is younger and more
diverse, and the financial system is more accessible than ever. With a
new generation of investors at the helm, the future looks a little
brighter. We're humbled by what we will accomplish--together.
