- Do you tell yourself that your workload is heavy just because of a
project going on - or is overwork a permanent state at your company?

# Be more Realistic About Time You Have
- Five strategies to help you stop overloading your workday.

We are master storytellers. We tell ourselves fanciful stories to
motivate ourselves to get vast amounts of work done in small amounts of
time. We jot down task after task, sure that we can complete them all
within a standard workday. And yet, at the end of the day, we're stunned
to find that work remains unfinished and we have to dash to the finish
line. We're not deliberately deceiving ourselves about what we can do
with our time. But despite past evidence, in the moment our predictive
engines gum up, and we're convinced we'll be able to achieve the
extraordinary in an ordinary day.

Welcome to the land of magical thinking. We've all traveled there,
chasing the chimera of unfettered time. We persuade ourselves there's no
harm in overambitious plans because they help us overachieve. And
especially with remote work, we are convinced of the need to show others
our value through overwork. Yet when we indulge in magical thinking, we
can disappoint others who depend on us, miss deadlines, feel depleted,
and lose our inspiration.

Unshackling ourselves from time fantasies is complex. Our bosses like it
when we show up in heroic capes and rewards us handsomely when we do
delivery. But eventually -- sooner than we imagine -- every hero tires
out.

Consider the case of Francesca, a researcher at a top biotech firm
Francesca is a prominent thought leader and prolific publisher in her
field. She's also a valued collaborator for several colleagues and
mentors dozens of women in their early career, all while adhering to a
relentless conference speaking schedule and supporting a nephew suffering
from a debilitating condition. While Francesca takes pride in her work,
she realizes she has no time for some of her people management
responsibilities, exercise, or planning a family of her own. Francesca
longs for a more realistic schedule. As we started working together, she
gradually realized she was in time debt: overcommitted, overwhelmed and
under-resourced. Not only were her health and personal relationship
suffering, but her collaborators were disappointed and annoyed, carrying
a disproportionate amount of their joint work.

Francesca's patterns of overcommitment revealed five elements of magical
thinking about her time - trap that many of my clients fall into. We
devised antidotes for each.

### My heavy workload is just temporary.
Francesca was tempted to say yes to an enticing position, chairing an
international conference despite the hundreds of hours of work entailed.
She reasoned that her current overload was temporary and named three
projects that were nearly complete while disregarding the endless stream
of new requests. She was unlikely to pause her assembly-line workload
for a year to chair this conference. If you, like Francesca indulge this
common fantasy, objectively review your major projects in the past year.
Which were planned and which were opportunistic? This paints a more
realistic picture of how your future calendar will be populated and
facilitates prioritizing the most impactful items and renegotiating the
rest either by saying no, lowering expectations, or requesting help.

### The next time will be easier.
Experience is a sage teacher but with our pace of change, additional
challenges appear with each new venture. Francesca lulled herself into
believing a new project would go faster than the previous one, but in
the end, she had more late nights. Eventually she learned that despite
expertise and planning, certain types of projects took about 20% longer
than estimated. She learned to create a buffer and then add even more
time post-buffer. For example, if she thought writing a summary would
take two days, she added a half day to her estimate. Instead of
promising delivery Tuesday, she estimated noon Wednesday for
completion and committed to deliver by end-of-day Thursday.
Eveidence-based buffering helps you estimate more realistically and
pushing out delivery dates accommodates the unexpected, reduces stress
and allows time for other parts of your life.

### I will collect immediate rewards.
Our desire to please others forms a big obstacle to a realistic view of
time. Affirmation from the boss or validation from colleagues are
extrinsic rewards for being a can-do person whom everyone believes they
can count on. The associated dopamine rush leads us to raise our hands
when new tasks are up for grabs. Instead, first consider how colleagues
will feel at the finish line if you submit subpar work, force delays on
team members,or otherwise struggle to deliver timely, quality work on
commitments thoughtlessly made in haste. Calculate what you can
reasonably do based on pleasing others at the end of projects, rather
than before they're even launched. The sum of the parts of your work
will add up to a manageable whole and your relationships will remain
intact too.

### Others will follow my instructions.
People from across the company (and sometimes outside it) sought
Francesca's expert opinion before issuing statements, writing briefs, or
embarking on initiatives, Most of these people made repeated mistakes.
To help, Francesca wrote a bulleted set of best practices for others to
follow before submitting their work to her. However, most of her
colleagues ignored her guidelines and continued dropping subpar work
into her inbox, expecting her to provide extensive feedback or even to
rewrite the document-and many times she did just that. Francesca had to
retrain them. Instead of spending hours revising a document, she would
simply return it and request that they follow guidelines 5 and 7, for
example, before coming back to her. When you invest in providing
documentation to help others be more self-sufficient, don't rob them of
the opportunity for autonomy by jumping into the details.

### Without me, this work will be poor quality.
Francesca rarely made mistakes, and her work was widely cited and highly
praised. She knew quality suffered when she didn't devote large swaths
of time to a project, convincing herself that only she could do certain
things well. Instead, Francesca learned to dedicate some of the buffer
time to coach her colleagues instead of doing all the work herself. It
took them a few more iterations to nail a proof but armed them with
skills for better results the next time. We are complicit in maintaining
the myth that we're indispensable or smarter than most. We want to be
wanted and appreciated. But when we loosen our grip on the monopoly of
having the answers, we build capacity in many instead of perpetuating
dependence on the few.

When we depend on magical thinking to vanquish the tyranny of the clock,
we diminish our capacity to get things done. By realistically
confronting our fantasies, we increase our ability to make extraordinary
progress without supernatural effort.

- Sabian Nawaz
