# Be an editor
If you'll allow a metaphor swithc, Rabois said all startup teams can be
broken down into writers and editors, although not so literally.

You basically have people starting the work from scratch (the "writers")
who then send it up the chain of command to the editors. As a founder,
you should definitely be an editor.

This doesn't mean yo have to wield a red pen, but it does mean you have
to have some processes in place to make sure your output is intelligent,
clear, and consistent.

## 1. Simplify
It's a matter of eliminating the extraneous. From workflow to
organization methods, it's important that you develop an eye for keeping
things lean and efficient by way of elimination.

Rabois said, "It's something you have to practice, but when you get good
at it, [with] every step you eliminate .. you can improve performance by
30-50%."

"People cannot understand and keep track of long, complicated sets of
initiatives," he added. "So you have to distill it down to one, two, or
three things and use a framework they can repeat without thinking
about."

## 2. Clarify
Think outside you bubble and find ambiguities. Ask lots of questions,
big and small. "Did you mean to use this term here?" or "Is this on
brand?"

This doesn't mean diluting your message, though. In fact, quite the
opposite. Keep in mind some of the most concise copy can be the most
powerful, like Apple's "Think Different" slogan.

"You can change the world in 140 characters," Rabois said. "You can
build the most important companies in history with a very
simple-to-describe concept."

## 3. Allocate Resources
You can allocate resources in one of two ways: from the top down or from
the bottom up. Rabois said that from the bottom up is ideal.

When employees come up with their own initiative, they're more
passionate about them. Not to mention, they're being more resourceful
and hopefully eliminating some work for you.

As you begin to do more and more of this, you should be using less and
less of that "red ink" each day, and that's how you measure your
success.

## 4. Ensure Consistent Voice
In every place your company exists, it should look, sound, and feel like
it's coming from the same person.

This means first establishing that voice and making sure that it's
understand throughout your team. Then, with this voice in place, your
output will be even stronger, more focused, and more determined.

## 5. Delegate
Keep in mind that, within the writer/editor framework, writers do most
of work. So as a founder, you should stay in the editor role. Delegate
and make sure you're always editing.

However, this can lead to a bit of a dilemma. How do you delegate but
not abdicate? Rabois said that it's a matter of measuring your own level
of conviction against the consequences of that decision.

"Let people make mistakes and learn," he said. "On the other side,
obviously, is where the consequences are dramatic and you have extremely
high conviction that you are right, you actually can't let your junior
colleague make a mistake."

The ideal way to handle that situation is just to explain your explain
your reasoning as best you can, so it doesn't seem like you're throwing
your authority around just for the sake of it.

## 6. Edit the Team.
At all costs, you should avoid the "Now that we have money, let's hire a
bunch of people" inclination.

Rabois said that people often equate more people with high horsepower.
But in fact, having more people can actually get in the way of getting
more work done.

When you're first starting your hiring process, Rabois said you want to
look for barrels instead of ammunition. A barrel: "They can take an idea
from conception ... all the way to shipping and bring people with them.
That's a very cultural skill set."

Barrels require the least amount of red ink and will bring the most
initiative and resourcefulness to the table, so make sure they're
appreciated.

"Barrels are very difficult to find, but when you have them, give them
lots of equity, promote them, take them to dinner every week, because
they are virtually irreplaceable because they are also very culturally
specific. A barrels at one company may not be a barrel at another
company," he explained.

To decide if a person is a barrel at your company, you can expand their
scope of responsibilities as far as it will go, until it breaks.

Don't worry, this isn't some crazy sort of employee hazing. Everyone has
a breaking point from CEOs to interns, and the point where they break is
the level they should be at or the role they should fulfill because it's
the one that really pushes them.

As you gradually find out what that role is, you'll not only ensure that
you're getting the full benefits out of your employees, but they'll also
feel more useful.

Another little trick of the trade to finding your barrels is watching
whose desk people are going to often. Chances are that person is someone
in the office who is trustworthy, knowledgeable, and informative, so
they could be a potential barrel.
