# Learning from History's Greatest Practitioner

Horowitz said he looks to Toussaint L'Ouverture for inspiration on how
to best make decisions that have an efficient, positive impact on your
entire team.

L'Ouverure was a slave during one of the most brutal reigns in Haiti
(then the colony of Santo Domingo). He had a vision to end slavery, take
control of Haiti, and make it a first-class country.

In accomplishing the only successful slave rebellion in history, every
decision he made benefited the entirety of his mission, even at times
when most people would have opted for revenge against a heinous rule.

For example, after he defaulted the locals, he had to decide what to do
with the conquered soldiers. Rather than imprison or kill them, he
considered the leaders of his opposition and the resulting culture he
was working toward.

Horowitz explained, "When he conquered an army, he would take the best
people from the opponent and make them generals in his army ... He
wanted the expertise and to bring the culture up to a higher level."

"This is the power of looking at a situation not just from your point of
view, but from the point of view of all the constituents. Even the
people you hate, which is hard to do when you are a CEO and harder to do
when you are leading the revolution."

Knowing that the Haitian economy depended almost solely on sugar cane,
which was previously a slave economy, L'Ouverture had to then decide how
to manage the acres and acres of sugar cane he'd acquired as a result of
his successes.

He didn't know enough about the industry to take it in the direction he
wanted it to go. So, instead of killing the slave owners, he let them
keep their land and run the sugar cane plantations.

But they had to pay their workers, thereby abolishing slavery. Horowitz
said that under L'Ouverture's rule, "Haiti had more export income than
the U.S."

## The Take-Away
By taking inspiration from L'Ouventure and considering all parties
involved in each decision you make in the management of your company,
you'll be able o keep you eye on the long view and set yourself up for
future success.

Horowitz concluded, "The most important thing that you can learn, and
one of the hardest things to do, is you have to discipline yourself, to
see your company through the eyes of the employees, though  the eyes of
your partners, through the eyes of the people you are not talking to and
are not in the room."
