# Moving your company Forward
By gathering and simplifying information, you can better predict your
output instead of your activity and adjust for improvements. But that
doesn't mean you should only keep an eye out for trends and
consistencies.

Rabois said it's also important to look for anomalies and what potential
they may offer. He used PayPay as a example.

"One day,someone noticed that 54 of the sellers had actually handwritten
into their eBay listings, 'Please pay me with PayPal' and brought this
to the attention of the executive team at the time. The first reaction
from the executive team was, 'What the hell is going on? Let's get them
out of the system.' Fortunately, David Sacks came back the next day and
said 'I think we found our market.'

After encouraging the 'pay with PayPal' option and including it
consistently across the eBay site, PayPal was able to tap into a large
market rather than exclude one. This is just one of the many kinds of
details you can't overlook.

Another one? Food.

"The best thing you can do is give people the food they want or the food
that's good for them, that makes them more productive," explained
Rabois

"So it may seem like this glorious job you thought you had is more like
running around being a TaskRabbit for people. But it is to take things
off their plate that are a distraction so they can be high-performance
machines."

## The Take-Away
Whether it's making sure you're feeding your team healthy, energizing
food or teaching your receptionist the best phone etiquette, every
little piece has to be in place in order for your business to run like a
perfect machine even without you at the wheel.
