# How to Stop Worrying About What Other People Think of You
### Michael Gervais

If you want to be your best and perform at a high level, fear of people'
opinions may be holding your back.

Think about a time when you were extremely anxious - say, before
standing up to publicly speak, raising your hand in a big meeting, or
even walking through a room of strangers. The reason you felt small and
scared and tense is you were worried about social disapproval.

Our fear of other people's opinions, or FOPO as I call it, has become an
irrational and unproductive obsession in the modern world, and its
negative effects reach far beyond performance.

If you start paying less and less attention to what makes you "you" -
your talents, beliefs, and values - and start conforming to what others
may or may not think, you'll harm your potential. You'll start playing
it safe because you're afraid of what will happen on the other side of
the critique. You'll fear being ridiculed or rejected. When challenged,
you'll surrender your viewpoint. You won't raise your hand when you
can't control the outcome. You won't go for that promotion because you
won't think you're qualified.

Unfortunately, FOPO is part of the human condition since we're operating
with an ancient brain. A craving for social approval made our ancestors
cautions and savvy; thousands of years ago, if the responsibility for
the failed hunt fell on your shoulders, your place in the tribe could be
threatened. The desire to fit in and the paralyzing fear of being
disliked undermine our ability to pursue the lives we want to create.

This underscores why we need to train and condition our mind - so the
tail is not wagging the dog.

If you find yourself experiencing FOPO, there are ways to dampen the
intensity of your stress response. Once you're aware of your thoughts
guide yourself toward confidence-building statements (I am a good a lot
of great things to say, I'm completely prepared for this promotion).
These statements will help you focus on your skills and abilities rather
than other' opinions. Take deep breaths, too. This will signal to your
brain that you're not in immediate danger.

But, if you really want to conquer FOPO, you'll need to cultivate more
self-awareness. Most of us go throgh life with a general sense of who we
are, and, in a lot of circumstances, that's enough. We get by. But if
you want to be your best while being less fearful of people's opinions,
you need to develop a stronger and much deeper sense of who you are.

You can start by developing a personal philosophy - a word or phrase
that expresses your basic beliefs and values. The personal philosophy of
Pete Carroll, my business partner and head coach of the Seattle
Seahawks, is "always compete." For Coach Carroll, always competing means
spending every day working hard to get better and reach his fullest
potential. This philosophy isn't a platitude or slogan; rather, it's his
compass, guiding his action, thoughts, and decisions. As a coach. A
father. A friend. In every area of life.

When coming up with a personal philosophy, ask yourself a series of
questions:
- When I'm at my best, what beliefs lie just beneath the surface of my
thoughts and action?
- Who are people that demonstrate characteristics and qualities that
  are in alignment with mine?
- What are those qualities?
- What are your favorite quotes? Your favorite words?

Once you've answered these questions, circle the words that stand out to
you and cross out the ones that don't. After studying what's left, try
to come up with a phrase or sentence that lines up with exactly who you
are and how you want to live your life. Share the draft with a loved
one, ask for input, and fine-tune your philosophy from there. The commit
it to memory and return to it daily.

Crafting a personal philosophy can be an eye-opening and powerful
exercise. When I coach teams of executives, I often ask them to write
down their personal philosophy and share it with the group. I'll never
welled up in his eyes, he straightened his back, held his head high, and
said, "My philosophy is to walk worthy." He told his colleagues that his
parents were immigrants who had persevered through challenging
circumstances to ensure he had better opportunities. Because of his
parent' hard work and sacrifice, he considered it his duty to live life
as if his family crest were emblazoned across his chest. Every day, he
tried to be worthy of their good deeds, and to be a great role model for
the next generation.

I can't overstate how important a personal philosophy is. Working with
NFL players and coaches, extreme-sport athletes, and senior leaders at
Fortune 50 companies, I've noticed that, beyond a relentless pursuit of
being their best, what make these high performers great is their clear
sense of the principles that guide them. Because of their clarity,
they're more willing to push themselves, learn more, and embrace
discomfort. They can shut out the noise and opinions of fans and media
and listen to their well-calibrated, internal compass.

Once you've developed your own personal philosophy, commit yourself to
live in accordance with its tenets. Start at home. Tell that person you
love them. Dance at a wedding. Take risks. Be respectfully weird. (That
probably means, be you.) Then try it at work. Give a presentation. Go
for that promotion. Do things that will engender the opinions of others.

When you feel the power of FOPO holding you back, simply acknowledge it,
and re-connect to your philosophy and the larger objective at hand.

Moving forward, solicit feedback from a short list of people who matter
to you. Honest reflection is a vital component of mastery. During an
episode of my podcast "Finding Mstery" Brene Brown, a renowned
researcher and author of "Dare to Lead" suggested that the names of
those people should fit on 1x1 inch index card. I add a second
condition. The people on your card should have a great sense of the
person you are and the person you're working to become. Hold their views
in high regard, letting the noise from the crowd fade away. Calibrate
their feedback with your experience.


Most of all, remember that growth and learning take place when you're
operating at the edge of your capacity. Like blowing up a nearly
inflated balloon,living in accordance with your personal philosophy will
require more effort and power, but, the result, which is to
authentically and artistically express who you are, will push you to
live and work with more purpose and meaning.

