# Part I - Ready, Steady..

"All glory comes from daring to begin." - Eugene F. Ware

If something has been holding you back from writing, it's probably a
fear of some kind. In this part, we take the bull by the horns by
confronting and banishing the fears that typically keep talented people
from expressing themselves as writers. Then we find out what  specific
type of writing suits you best. Finally, we explore how who you are and
what you know can guide you in selecting what stories to tell

# 1 - No more Fear, No more Excuses

"To do anything in this world worth doing, we must not stand back
shivering and thinking of the cold and danger, but jump in, and scramble
through as best we can." - Sidney Smith

A good coach should prepare you for the obstacles that may lie ahead,
and I know the number one obstacle you will face on your road to
success. It's you.

Years ago there was a wonderful comic strip called "Pogo," and one
famous line from it was, "We have met the enemy, and he is us." It's
true. Yes, it can be hard to think of the right word, find the right
agent, and put up with dumb decisions from editors or studio
executives, but the main problems we face are generated by ourselves.
Most of the time, these stem from our fears.
- Your may feel certain this does not apply to you, but in many cases
  the fear is hidden not only from others, but also from ourselves as
  would-be writers. Therefore, I respectfully suggest that you don't skip
  this chapter. If any of the fears mentioned here ring true, they may
  be at the root of your inability so far to write as much or as well as
  you'd like. Fortunately, as you'll see, there is a way to overcome
  each of these fears. The best strategy is to face them right now, head
  on, before we get on the nuts and bolts of writing and selling your
  work. Here they are, the Big Seven Fears and the ways to conquer them.

## The Fear Of Rejection
This is by far the most common fear of writers and artists of all
kinds-in fact, of all human being. Generally, when you stop yourself
from doing anything, at the heart of that self-sabotage is the fear that
you (or what you create) will be rejected.
- When you were young, maybe your mother of father encouraged you to
  take a chance on doing something by saying, "The worst that can happen
  is that they say no." What they didn't realize was that this the worst
  that can happen. If you have a memory of asking someone out when you
  were a teenager, and that person said no, you'll probably sill be able
  to call up that feeling of teeth-grinding,
  I-wish-I-could-just-sink-into-the-earth humiliation. Unfortunately,
  children quickly become expert at ridiculing others who are different-too fat,too thin, too tall, too short, too geeky, too anything. You learn to fit in, to do what everybody else is doing, desperate not to stand out. Of course, the irony is that every breakthrough, in writing or in any other field, come from doing something different from what the average person is doing.

- Here's the hard truth about rejection: You can't avoid it. There isn't
  a single successful writer who hasn't had work rejected at one point
  or another. Most of them had many, many rejections before they had
  their first success. Here are a few examples:
    - It took J.K. Rowling a year to find a publisher for the first
      Harry Potter book. There was only one offer, from Bloomsbury, for
      $4900. At the end of teir meeting her publisher's parting words
      were, "You'll never make any money out of children's book,Jo."
    - Melody Beatti's non-fiction book Co-Dependent No More was turned
      down by 20 publishers. It went on to sell five million copies.
    - Joanne Harris wrote three books that failed to find a publisher.
      Her fourth book, the novel Chocolat, became an international
      bestseller and spawne an equally succesful film.
    - John Grisham's first novel, A Time to Kill, was rejected by 15
      agent and 26 publishers before Wynwood Press agreed to publish
      it-in an edition of 5,000 copies. The book didn't become a
      bestseller until Grisham's next three were hungely succesful.
    - Wilbur Smith's first novel found no publisher, and he decided that
      writing wasn't for him. Eighteen months later his agent convinced
      him to have another try. That book sold, and since then his novel
      have sold 84 million copies.

I could fill this entire book with similar stories. Rejection comes with
the territory. If you expect rejection and remember not ot take it
personally, it loses some of its sting. Remind yourself that the people
who are judging you are fallible (let's spend a happy moment imagining
how the publishers who turned down J.K. Rowling must be feeling just
about now.)
- That's not to say it won't hurt when the big fat envelope containing
  your manuscript comes back again, or when agents say they don't even
  want to read your material. It will, but you'll get over it. Here's
  what Norman Mailer has to say about this, in his book The Spooky Art:
  "More sensitive than others in the beginning, we have to develop the
  will, the stamina, the determination, and the insensitivity to take
  critical abuse. A good writer, therefore, does well to see himself as
  strong weak person, full of brave timidity, sensitive and insensitive.
  In effect, we have to learn to live in the world with its bumps and
  falls and occasionally startling rewards while protecting the core of
  what once seemed a frighteningly perishable sensitivity."

In other words you can't just try to transform yourself into someone
with such a hard shell that you no longer fell any pain. If you do, you
lose the very part of yourself that allows you to create insightful,
emotional, touching stories and books and scripts. The two parts of
yourself have to co-exist. Fortunately, there are some excellent
techniques for doing this. One is always to be working on the next
things. When you finish one writing project and start to send it out,
get right to work on the next one. Your creative juices will be flowing
and when the first one is rejected, it's much easier to think, "Well,
that one may or may not be published eventually," but the one I'm
working on now is sure to be a masterpiece." Emotionally, there is
nothing worse than feeling your entire career is riding on one project
and waiting day after day to hear whether the people to whom you've
submitted it actually want it.

## The Fear that is won't be good enough
This fear sometimes stops people before that even start. Such people
measure their ideas against the best writing of all time. Can what you
intend to write possibly attain the stature of the works of Shakespeare,
Conrad, or Hemingway? Probably not( although you never know). So what's
th most point of writing it in the first place? If you use this line of
reasoning, it's almost certain you'll never get started.

- If your pattern is to compare yourself to the greatest authors of all
  time, there are two ways to get over it. One is to remember that you
  never know what will stand the test of time. Shakespeare was writing
  popular entertainment, and probably would be astonished to find his
  plays still being read and preformed 400 years later. If you're
  worried about how posterity will judge your work, accept that you
  can't possibly know this anyway.

- On a more down-to-earth level, it's helpful to remind yourself that
  your writing doesn't have to be great literature to have value to your
  readers. It's unlikely that the books of John Grisham or Danielle
  Steele will ever feature in many literature courses, yet they have
  given pleasure to millions. Even the Harry Potter books are looks down
  on by a number of literary critics, yet all around the worl they have
  rekindled children's interest in reading. If you're writing
  non-fiction, surely you can think of dozends of examples of books like
  How to Win Friends and Influence People, that are short on literary
  merit, but that have helped or inspired millions of people. Richard
  Carlson, whose series of Don't Sweat the Small Stuff books has sold
  millions, told interviewer Judith Spelman:
  "I don't pretend to be really intellectual. I don't offer
  psychobabble. I just write about the very practical and ordinary
  things and that's why people relate to it."
- If your pattern is stopping partway through your project, perhaps you
  are measuring what you've written against the pristine, perfect vision
  of it that you had at the start. For example, may be you anted to
  write a book that would illuminate the thoughts and feelings of a
  woman who is abandoned by her husband and left to raise their
  handicapped child alone. Halfway though, you read what you've written
  so far and realize that the characters aren't as alive as you'd hoped
  they would be, or the plot has some holes in it, ir your prose isn't
  as vibrant as you imagined. At this point, it's easy to give up-why
  carry on when clearly you're not fulfilling your own vision? Sometimes
  at this stage a new idea occurs to you, a new story that ism as yet,
  perfect . So you put aside the half-finished draft and start writing
  the new story... until halfway through that one, the same thing
  happens. After a few instances of this, it's easy to come to the
  conclusion that you're wasting your time with this writing business
  and give up.

- If you stop yourself by comparing your partly finished book to the ideal
  you had in mind when you started, consider this: Would you feel
  disappointed by a 10-year-old boy because he's not going out every day
  earning a living? Presumably you'd say of course not, he's just a
  child, he's not an adult yet, why would I expect him to have a career
  and earn his own way? Your partly finished book is also child. It
  becomes a grown-up when it's completed and has been rewritten and
  polished. That's the time to assess it, not now.

- It's also important to remember that it's extremely rare for any
  artist or writer or architect or other creative person to feel that
  their final product matches up to their original dream. I'm sure
  Michelanelo looked up at the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel and thought
  it could have been just that little bit better. If you accept this as
  an inevitable part of the creative process, you stop punishing yourself
  for your supposed failings. The positive aspect of this phenomenon is
  that is can spur you to move on to your next project, hoping and
  planing to get closer to realizing your dream next time. You may never
  arrive, but that journey can be books that entertain or inspire or
  instruct a dozen people or a millions.

- For some writers thinking through the logic of this process is enough;
  others find that they have a strong inner critic who resists mere
  logic. If you're one of those people, you'll find the solution in
  Chapter 12, "Tame the Wild Inner ( and Outer ) Critic."

## The Fear of Success
Everybody understands why someone might be afraid to fail; it's a bit
more difficult to understand why some people are afraid of success. The
reason is that we tend to fear change, and success is one type of
change. Maybe we're afraid that our old friends won't like us any more,
or that we won't be able to cope with the demands of fame an fortune. Or
may be we worry that in the public spotlight our failings will be
exposed.
- The fact is that the only constant is change. Whether or not you
  succeed as a writer, you will lose some friends and gain others, you
  will have money pressures and at times you will feel vulnerable.
- As far as fortune is concerned, if you earn a lot you always have the
  option of giving it away. If you don't like being rich, you can choose
  to go back to being poorer. However, the odds are you won't mind it.
  As someone has pointed out, "Money can't buy happiness, but it can
  make unhappiness much more comfortable."

- With fame, writers have a big advantage over actors. A very successful
  actor is recognized by millions of people. The writer who is read by
  millions still can choose to keep a low public profile. Most readers
  don't even know what their favorite authors look like, other than the
  picture on the back cover. Being a best-selling author may open the
  door to fame, but you don't have to go through it.

## The fear of Revealing too Much.
Writers sometimes panic when they realize that the book or script they
are writing is a lot more personal than they intended. It may not be
strictly autobiographical in terms of dates, times, and names, but their
innermost fears, shames, and longings are making their way into the
work.
- In one way, of course, this is great news. When such deep feeling are
  reflected in a work it's much more likely to strike a responsive chord
  in readers. The books you love probably are the ones that made you
  think the author understood you, that he or she is a kindred spirit. If
  you don't open yourself up in this way, it's unlikely your words will
  have much emotional weight. Many writers have said that writing is a
  kind of therapy. Putting their fears and passions into a book and
  perhaps coming up with a story that reflects how things should have
  worked out, rather than how they actually did, can be a healing
  process. Science fiction and fantasy pioneer Ray Bradbury delivered an
  invocation at a Humanitas Prize gathering, saying:
  "Help us to know that only in our loves can we create and out of that
  creation change some stray, small part of the world we touch."

Readers don't have some kind of X-ray vision that tells them which part
of what you've written is true and which part you've made up.
Furthermore, mostly they won't care. It's not the author's experience
they're thinking about and sharing, it's the character's.

- A separate but related issue is whether family friends will recognize
  you or themselves in your work. People know themselves so little that
  some will see themselves in characters you based on someone totally
  different, and others will fail to recognize themselves in characters
  you did base on them. Naturally, you can't really worry about it.
  Allow the story to guide you, give you work the feeking it requires,
  and let the characters come alive. And when it's all done, it someone
  asks where you got the idea for a particular character, you always
  have the option of lying. I'm not saying I ever do this, but when my
  play "Killing Mother" was produced, I did tell my mother that it was
  based on the story a friend told me about his mother...

## The Fear that you have only one book in you.
Most people have heard of publishing's sophomore curse: Often a second
novel is less successful tan the first. Frequently, this happens
because a first novel is heavily autobiograpical and the writer has
spend years on it. If it is successful, the publicher may press for a
follow-up novel to be produced quickly, sometimes with a sacrifice in
quality. Therefore it's natural for first-time novelists to worry about
whether their second effort will live up to their initial work, but in
some cases writers start worrying about this before they've even
finished the first one.

- There are two answers to this anxiety. Some authors only ever produce
  one work. The prime example is Harper Lee, with her masterpiece "To
  Kill a Mockingbird" Not only has this book given pleasure to millions,
  it has also had an important social impact. When the civil rights
  lawyers who risked their lives in the 1960s and early 1970s in
  pursuit of equal rights for black people were asked what inspired them
  to do this, many of them named "To Kill a Mockingbird" as one of the
  influences. If you were to write only a single book but it had the
  power of that one, would that be so bad?

- Realistically, however, most authors have many books in them. One way
  to reassure yourself of this to keep a notebook of ideas for future
  books while you're writing the first one. List down any and all ideas
  for stories, characters, settings, situations, bits of dialogue, etc.
  Don't let them distract you from putting most of your energy into your
  current book, but keep your note book handy as a reminder that ideas
  are plentiful. Chapter 4, "An Endless Flow of Ideas," will also give
  you strategies for generating even more ideas when you need them.

## The fear that you're too old.
There's so much emphasis these days on young and attractive writers
that you may fear you're not the right type for today's publishing
scene. Publishers do rejoice when they find an author who can look sexy
on the back cover and be promoted as the nexy young discovery. However,
there are always exceptions. In 2003, the winner of the Whitebread Award
was Norman Lebrecht, age 54, for his novel "The Song of Names." In the
Guardian newspaper he said "Here there ar agents who are prepared to put
their faith in someone who is on the wrong side of 50." Others who
started late and thrived include Annie Proulx,Penelope Fitzgerald, and
Mary Wesley.
 Lebrecht makes the case for mature writers:
 "When I read a novel, I like to hear the voice of someone who has
 experience. There are many art forms that are particularly suited to
 young  people, in which young people can have their say-there's pop
 music, there's theatre-much better suited to the very young than to the
 middle-aged. But the novel and the symphony are contemplative forms,
 into which you try to pack as much of what you know about life as
 possible, as much as you never even knew you knew." 
