# Has A Problem
StoryBrand Principle Two: Companies tend to sell solutions to external
problems, but customers buy solutions to internal problems.

Now that you've entered into your customers' story, how do you increase 
their interest in your brand? You borrow another play from the storyteller's playbook: you start tallking about the problems your customers face.

Identifying our customers' problems deepens their interest in the story
we are telling. Every story is about somebody who is trying to solve a
problem. So when we identify our customers' problems, they recognize us
as a brand that understands them.

The problem is the "hook" of a story, and if we don't identify our
customers' problems, the story we are telling will fall flat. As soon as
the conflict in a story is resolved, audiences stop paying attention. As
the novelist Jame Scott Bell says, "Readers want to fret." It's true in
story and it's true in branding.

If Jason Bourne were to get a call thirty minutes into the first Bourne
Identity movie and a gentle, clamming voice began to explain who Jason
really was, why he'd suffered amnesia, and that the government was
offering him a pension along with a house on the coast, then no one
would keep watching. The reason to pay attention would be gone.

It bears repeating. The more we talk about the problems our customers
experience, the more interest thy will have in our brand.

## How to Talk About Your Customers' Problems
In the second module of the StoryBrand Framework, we're going to look at
three elements of conflict that will increase customer interest, ratchet
up engagement, and give a greater depth of meaning to the story our
brand is telling.

First, though, let's start with the root of where all this conflict is
coming from. I'm talking about one of the most dynamic, interesting
characters in any story: the villain.

## Every Story Needs a Villain
The villain is the number-one device storytellers use to give conflict a
clear point of focus.

Screenwriters and novelists know the stronger, more evil, more dastradly
the villain, the more sympathy we will have for the hero and the more
the audience will want them to win in the end. This translates into
audience engagement.

How sympathetic would Batman be without the Joker? Luke Skywalker
without Darth Vader? Harry Potter without Voldermort? Superman without
Kryptonite? (Let's be honest, Kex Luthor isn't that interesting of a bad
guy.)

If we want our customer' ears to perk up when we talk about our products
and services as weapons they can use to defeat a villain. And the villain
should be dastardly.

The villain doesn't have to be a person, but without question it should
have personified characteristics. If we're selling time-management
software, for instance, we might vilify the idea of distractions. Could
we offer our product as a weapon customers could use to stop
distractions in their tracks? Sound kind of dramatic, right? And yey
distractions are what's deluding our customers' potential, wreeking
their families, stealing their sanity, and costing them enormous
amounts of time and money. Distractions, then, make for great little
villains.

Now that I've pointed out the technique of vilifying our customers'
challenges, you'll see it in television commercial all the time, Who
knew that those dust bunnies collecting along the baseboards of our
houses move around in animated, criminal to ruin our floors? Ah, that is
until they meet their match: the new mop from ACME Mop Company.

Advertisers personify the problems their customers face in order to
capture their imagination and give their frustrations a focal point.
Fuzzy hairballs with squeaky voices living in your drains making nests,
and clogging up the pipes? Yellow globs of living, breathing, talking
plaque vacationing between your teeth? These are all personified
versions of conflict. They're all villains.

Here are four characteristics that make for a good villain on your
StoryBrand BrandScript:
- 1. The villain should be a root source.
    Frustration, for example, is ont a villain; frustration is what a
    villain makes us feel. High taxes, rather, are a good examples of a
    villain.
- 2. The villain should be relatable.
    When people hear us takj about the villain, they should immediately
    recognize it as something they disdain.
- 3. The villain should be singular.
    One villain is enough. A stroy with too many villains falls apart
    for lack of clarity.
- 4. The villain should be real.
    Never go down the path of being a fearmonger. There are plenty of
    actual villains out there to fight. Let's go after them on behalf of
    our customers.
    
Is there a villain in your customers' story? Of course there is. What is
the chief source of conflict that your products and services defeat?
Talk about this villain. The more you talk about the villain, the more
people will want a tool to help them defeat the villain.

Later, when you're creating your BrandScript, I'll ask you to brainstorm 
what kind of villain your customer faces. For now, thought, let's look
closely at the kinds of conflict this villain causes. Once we understand
our customers' problems, we'll have a better idea how to talk to them in
such a way that they engage.

## The Three Levels of Conflict
A villain is the antagonist because the villain causes the ero serious
problems. That's obvious. But what's less obvious is that in a story,
there are three levels of problems that work together to capture a
reader's or a moviegoer's imagination.

The three levels of problems heroes(and customers) face are
- External Problems
- Internal Problems
- Philosophical Problems
In a story, a villain initiates an external problems that causes the
character to experience an internal frustration that is, quite simply,
philosophically wrong, These are also the three levels of problems a
customer hopes to solve when they buy a product.

I know that sounds complicated, but let's take a closer look at each
level of conflict so we know exactly which of our customers'
frustrations to talk about as we clarity our message.

## External Problems
In literature, a villain's job is to wreak havoc on the hero, to place
barries between them and their desperate desire for stability. But ill
intentions aren't enough. Something, that is, some thing (or things)
must represent this barrier. Enter the "external problem."

In stories, the external problem is often a physical, tangible problem
the hero must overcome in order to save the day. The problem might 
manifest itself as a ticking time bomb or a runaway bus, or maybe even a
combination of the two: a bomb on a bus that will go off if Keanue
Reeves doesn't keep the speed above fifty miles per hour!

The external problem works like a prized chess piece set between the
hero and the villain, and each is trying to control the piece so they
can win the game.

For Billy Beane in the movie Moneyball, the external problem is the need
to win baseball games. For Matthew Broderick in the movie WarGames. It's
piece of rogue software that has taken over the American government's
computer system and attempts to wage war against the Soviets.

But what does the existence of an external problem in a story have to do
with branding? Well, most of us are in the business of solving external
problems. We provide insurance or clothes or soccer balls. If we own a
restaurant, the external problem we solve is hunger. The external
problem a plumber fixes might be a leaky pipe, just like a pest-control
guy might solve the external problem of termites in the attie.

Brainstorming what external problems you solve will be the easiest part
of creating your StoryBrand BrandScript. It's usually pretty obvious.
But you'd be wrong to think the reason people call you, walk through
your door, or visit your website is limited to the resolution of an
external problem. Something else is going on.

## Internal Problems
By limiting our marketing messages to only external problems, we neglect
a principle that is costing us thousands and potentially millions of
dollars. That principle is this: Companies tend to sell solutions to
external problem, but people buy solutions to internal problems.

The purpose of an external problem in a story is to manifest an internal
problem. If I wrote a movie about a guy who simply needed to disarm a
bomb, audiences would lose interest. What storytellers and screenwriters
do, then, is create a backstory of frustration in the hero's life.

In the movie Moneyball, for instance, Billy Beane failed in his playing
career and so was filled with self-doubt about whether he could redeem
himself as a general manager. In Star Wars, Luke Skywalker was told by
his uncle that he was too young to join the resistance, so he doubted
his  ability until the very end.

In almost every story the hero struggles with the same question: Do I
have what it take? This question can make them feel frustrated,
incompetent, and confused. The sense of self-doubt is what makes a movie
about baseball relatable to a soccer mom and a romantic comedy relatable
to a truck-driving husband.

What stories teach us is that people's internal desire to resolve a
frustration is a greater motivator than their desire to solve an
external problem.

This is where most brands make a critical mistake. By assuming our
customers only want to resolve external problems, we fail to engage the
deeper story they're actually living. The truth is, the external
problems we solve are causing frustrations in their lives and, just like
in a story, it's those frustrations that are motivating them to call
you.

After their near collapse, Apple didn't find their footing until Steve
Job understood that people felt intimidated(internal problem) by
computers and wanted a simpler interface with technology. In one of the
most powerful advertising campaigns in history, Apple showed a simple,
hip, fun character who just wanted to take photos and listen to music
and write books next to a not-so-hip tech nerd who wanted to talk about
the inner working of his operating system. The campaign positioned Apple
Computers as the company to go to if you wanted to enjoy life and
express yourself but felt intimidated by all tech talk. What was the
internal problem Apple identified? It was the sense of intimidation most
people felt about computers. Apple started selling more than computers;
they started selling a resolution to the problem of customer
intimidation. Understanding their customers' internal problem is one of
the reasons Apple achieved such growth and created passionate brand
evangelists.

The only reason our customers but from us is because the external
problem we solve is frustration, put it into words, and offer to resolve
it along with the original eternal problem, something special happens.
We bond with our customers because we've positioned ourselves more
deeply into their narrative.

For example, if we own a house-painting business, our customer's
external problem might be an unsightly home. The internal problem,
however, may involve a sense of embarrassment about having the ugliest
home on the street. Knowing this, our marketing could offer "Paint That
Will Make Your Neighbors Jealous."

### What Frustrations Do Our Products Resolve?
Recently, the rental-car company National got my business by
understanding my internal frustration. I used to rend from a company
that got on my nerves. Normally when I get off a plane I don't feel like
making small talk. The staff at the company I used to rent cars from had
a policy of chitchatting with their customers. They even used a script.
First they asked whether I was in town for business or pleasure, then
they asked about the weather where I came from. On and on it went. I
heard this script so many times I started having fun beating them to
their own talking points. I'd often jump ahead on their script and ask
the clerk, "Are you going to be able to have a little downtime while
you're in town?" They'd just stare blankly at me because I'd hijacked
their line.

One day, though, I was watching television and a commercial came on for
National. It showed a guy walking through the rental office without
talking to anybody. The character talked about how he hated having to
make conversation with salespeople and how he loved walking straight to
his car. I immediately changed rental car companies and have been happy
ever since.

Speaking of car companies, CarMax is a chain of used car dealerships
that aims most of their marketing collateral at the internal problem a
customer experiences when looking for a used car, namely having to
interact with a used-car salesman.

If you've ever walked onto a used-car lot, you know the feeling. It's as
though you're about to tangle with a professional wrestler.

Knowing their customers don't want to haggle over prices or risk buying
a lemon, CarMax's business strategy is aimed at you not having to feel 
lied to, cheated, or worked over in your car-buying experience. To do
this, they have an agreement plan with their customers that ensures the
price on the car is the price you'll pay and lets you know their
salespeople aren't compensated on commission. They also highlight their
quality certification and inspection process that ensures every car they
sell is reliable.

The external problem CarMax exploded by not just offering customers a
cup of coffee but by giving them a comfortable, sophisticated
environment in which to relax. Customers felt good about themselves when
they walked into a Starbucks was delivering more value than just coffee:
they were delivering a sense of sophistication and enthusiasm about
life. They were also offering a place for people for people to meet in
which they could experience affiliation and belonging. Starbucks changed
American culture from hanging out in dinners and bars to hanging out in
a local, Italian-style coffee shop.

In understanding how their customers wanted to feel, Starbucks took a
product that Americans were used to paying fifty cents for (or drinking
for almost free at home or at work) and were able to change three or
four dollars per cup. Starbucks customers are willing to pay more for
their coffee because they sense greater value with each cup.

Framing our products as a resolution to both external and internal
problems increases the perceived value (and I would argue, actual value)
of those products.

Later, I'll guide you through a brainstorming exercise helping you
identify some of your customers' internal problems, but before that,
let's look at a third kind of problem our customers experience. This
third level of problem can take a story over the top, have audiences
standing on their seats, and is one of the main reasons a film will win
Best Picture at the Academy Awards. And it has the same kind of power
when it comes to helping us turn disinterested customers into brand
fanatics.

## Philosophical Problems
The philosophical problem in a story is about something even larger than
the story itself. It's about the question why, "Why does tis story
matter in the overall epic of humanity?"

Why is it important that Tommy Boy save his dad's company? I'll tell you
why, because the people trying to take Tommy Boy down are lying thieves.
This is a comedic story about honesty, family, integrity, and hard work
versus deception, greed, and trickery.

Why is it important that Hamlet avenge his father's death? Because his
uncle is getting away with murder.

Why is it important that Bridget Jones find love? Because the beauty and
worth of every person deserves to be recognized and cherished by
another.

A philosophical problem can best be talked about using terms like ought
and shouldn't "Bad people shouldn't be allowed to win" or "People ought
to be treated fairly."

In the movie "The King's Speech", the external problem is King George's
stutter. This external problem manifests the internal frustration and
self-doubt the king struggles with. He simply doesn't believe he has
what it takes to lead his country. Philosophical, though, the stakes are
much greater. Because the king must unify his people against the Nazis,
the story takes on the philosophical problem of good versus evil.

In Jerry Maguire, the philosophical question revolves around whether
people are worth more than the money they can bring in. Romeo and Juliet
asks whether romantic love is more important than family squabbles and
tribal unrest.

### What's the Deeper Meaning?
People want to be involved in a story that is larger than themselves.
Brands that give customers a voice in a larger narrative add value to
their products by giving their customers a deeper sense of meaning.

After creating their BrandScript, a global consulting firm we worked
with began to talk about how everybody deserved to work for a great
manager. A pet-store owner who came to us hung a sign in her window that
said, "Pet deserve to eat healthy food too." A fun-loving travel agent
came to us and adopted the seasonal line "Because this summer should be
remembered forever."

Before music went digital, Tower Records promoted their chain of record
stores using the tagline "No music, no life." Not only did the tagline
help them sell more than a billion dollars in records each year, but
they sold thousands of bumper stickers and T-sirts featuring the tagline
to fans who wanted to associate with the philosophical belief that music
mattered.

Is there a deeper story your brand contributers to? Can your products be
positioned as tools your customers can use to fight back against
something that ought not be? If so, let's include some philosophical
stakes in our messaging.

## The Perfect Brand Promise
If we really want to satisfy our customers, we can offer much more than
products or services: we can offer to resolve an external, internal and
philosophical problem whenever they engage our business.

Storytellers use this formula to endear audiences all the time. When
Luke shoots the photon torpedo through the little hole in the Death
Star, he actually resolves the external problem of destroying the Death
Star, the internal problem that had him wondering whether he had what it
took to be a Jedi, and the philosophical problem of good versus evil,
all with the press of a button.

When these three levels of problems are resolved in one shot, the
audience experiences a sense of pleasure an relief, causing them to love
the story. This scene is often called the "climactic" or "obligatory"
scene, and it is arguably the most important scene in the movie because
every other scene builds toward it in some way.

The resolution of the hero's external, internal, and philosophical
problem is the reason we cried when Woody and Buzz were reunited with
Andy in Toy Story, and it's why we felt so deeply when Private Ryan

