# To Sound Like a Leader, Think About What You Say, and How and When You
# Say it. - Rebecca Shambaugh , Oct 31, 2017

### Summary
 - Whether you are an associate manager or a senior executive, what you
   say, how you say it, when you say it, to whom you say it, and whether
   you say it within the proper context are critical components of you
   strategic leadership potential. This "executive voice" is less about
   your performance and more about your strategic instincts and your
   awareness of the signals you send in daily interactions and
   communications. Developing an executive voice can mean the difference
   between success and failure in your communication and leadership
   style. You can show up more strategically in meetings by doing your
   homework and by taking the lead in analyzing difficult situations.
   Bring solutions, not just problems. And stay clam in pressure cooker.
   People with an effective executive voice aren't easily rattled. They
   provide levelheaded leadership even when - everyone around them is
   losing their composure. By making the necessary adjustments to your
   approach to participation, you can start showing up more
   strategically in every setting you encounter at work.

Nancy started her day feeling prepared to brief her executive team on a
high-stakes project she had been working on for the past two months. She
had rehearsed her slide deck repeatedly, to the point where she had
every level of content practically memorized. She arrived at the
meeting early and waited patiently, yet anxiously, for her part of the
agenda. The meeting began, and within a few minutes Jack, one of the
cochairs, asked her to brief the executives on her project and
recommendations.

Nancy enthusiastically launched into her presentation, hitting every
talking point that she had meticulously rehearsed. With a solid command
of the material, she felt at the top of her game and was relieved that
she'd spend so much time practicing and preparing for this project, but
it is not relevant to our agenda, and it doesn't have merit for the
business objectives we're covering today." Mortified, Nancy retreated to
her chair and sat in silence for the rest of the meeting. She couldn't
wait to bolt from the room the moment the meeting ended to reflect on
how this moment - which she expected would be a positive turning point
in her career - had turned into a disaster.

What just happen here? While Nancy was prepared to participate in the
meeting, she failed to think strategically. This is a common problem
that trips up many capable managers, executives, and leaders when it
comes to determining their role in communications, meetings, and other
forums. Learning how to develop and convey a more strategic executive
voice - in past by understand context - can help leaders avoid finding
themselves, as Nancy did, in a potentially career - damaging situation.

## Why You Need an Executive Voice.
Whether you are an associate manager or a senior executive, what you
say, how you say it, when you say it, to whom you say it, and whether
you say it in the proper context are critical components for tapping
into your full strategic leadership potential. If you want to establish
credibility and influence people, particularly when interacting with
other executives or senior leadership, it's important to be concise and
let individuals know clearly what role you want them to play in the
conversation. It's also important to demystify the content of any
message you deliver by avoiding jargon and bing a person of few but
effective - words.

All of these factors relate to developing a strategic executive voice.
Your executive voice is less about your performance; it relates more to
your strategic instincts, understanding of context, and awareness of the
signals your send in your daily interactions and communications. Like
its sister attribute, executive presence, executive voice can seem
somewhat intangible and thus difficult to define. But the fact is, we
all have a preferred way to communicate with others, and doing this with
strategic intent and a solid grasp of context can mean the difference
between success and failure in your communication and leadership style.

One of the most important aspects of having an executive voice relates
to being a strategic leader. I frequently hear top executives that they
would like to promote one of their high-potential leaders but feel the
person is not strategic enough to advance. When I hear managers say this
, I try to gently push back and suggest that maybe the problem isn't the
leadership potential; perhaps they are failing to tap into their
abilities as a strategic leader.

Whether you have someone on your team who you think lacks strategic
readiness or you're worried that you might be a leader with untapped
strategic potential due to an undeveloped executive voice, read on.
Below are some coaching strategies that I use frequently with both male
and female executives to help them add a more strategic executive voice
to their leadership tool kit.

## Understand the context
 - How often do you find yourself throwing out an unformed idea in a
   meeting, not speaking up when people are looking for your ideas, or
   saying something that doesn't quite fit the agenda and suddenly
   getting that "deer in the headlights" feeling? If these situations
   sound familiar, what is it that went wrong? In short, these types of
   tactical errors come down to failing to understand the context of the
   call, meeting, or discussion that you are in.
 
    For example, if you are the primary authority on a topic, then it's
    likely that context would require you to lead the meeting and make
    any final decisions. But if you are one of several executives who
    might have input, then sharing your view and connecting the dots
    with others (rather than stealing the spotlight with your great
    ideas) would be your role. If you are in learning  mode and are nt
    asked to present at a meeting, then your role when it comes to
    communication would be to observe and listen. Knowing or finding out
    in advance hat you expected role is in a group forum or event can
    guide you in determining the kind of voice you need for that
    particular venue and can help ensure that you understand the context
    before you speak up.

## Be a visionary.
 - Sometimes we fail to tap into an executive voice because we focus too
   much on our own function or role. Strategic leaders are more
   visionary than that, taking an enterprise view that focuses less on
   themselves and move on the wider organization. Another part of being
   visionary is developing the ability to articulate aspirations for the
   future and a rationale for transformation.

   This type of executive vision helps guide decisions around individual
   and corporate action. You should work toward connecting the dots with
   your recommendations to show how your decisions affect other around
   the table, including your staff and the organization as a whole.

## Cultivate strategic relationships.
 - One of the best ways to build your strategic thinking is by
   leveraging relationships more intentionally, with specific business
   goals in mind. This calls for having senior leaders and executives
   who bring a strategic perspective of the organization' goals,
   changes, and top priorities that we may normally not have access to.
   When you cultivate and invest in broad strategic relationships, it
   helps you avoid getting caught up in day-to-day minutae.

   It's easy to lose sight of the significance of cultivating new and
   diverse relationships when you already have a full plate - but part
   of being able to access a strong executive voice is expanding our
   knowledge beyond your specific position, department, or area of
   expertise.

   To develop your executive voice, take time to reach out at least one
   person each week outside of your immediate team or function area -
   Try to learn:
    - How they fit into the business as a whole
    - Their goals and challenges
    - Ways you might support them as a strategic business partner

## Bring solution, not just problems.
 - While coaching a wide range of executives, I've firsthand that most
   feel frustrated when people point out challenges but don't offer any
   resolutions. Leading strategically with a strong executive voice
   involves problems solving, not just finger-pointing at difficult
   issues.

   You can show up more strategically by doing your homework and taking
   the lead in analyzing situations. Brainstorm fresh ideas that go
   beyond the obvious. Even if you don't have the perfect answer, you
   can demonstrate your ability to come up with clever solutions.

## Stay clam in the pressure cooker.
 - People with an effective executive voice aren't easily rattled. Can
   you provide levelheaded leadership even when - in fact, particularly
   when - everyone around you is losing their composure? When you can
   stick with facts instead of getting swept into an emotional tailspin
   no matter how stressed you feel, you'll be able to lead with a more
   powerful executive voice.

   It can be uncomfortable to recognize and admit personal challenges
   regarding your executive voice, and at first you may get pushback
   when making suggestions to improve the executive voice of those on
   your team. But once you overcome this initial resistance, whether in
   yourself or others, you'll find it's worth the up-front effort to
   investigate how to contribute most effectively to important meetings
   and other communications. By making the necessary adjustments to your
   approach to participation, you can avoid flying blind and start
   showing up more strategically in every setting.
