# 6 Lessons on Finding Product/ Market Fit: Hot to Pivot with purpose.

## Lesson 1: Fall in love with the problem, not the solution.
The startup community often glorifies the visionaries who know exactly
what to build - the Steve Jobs and the Henry Fords who willed the future
into existence. "If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have
said a faster horse," is an often repeated quote in founder circles.

The false lesson here is that to be a "great founder" folks should look
into their crystal ball and deduce what the would wants ahead of time -
because if a founder can't predict the future, failure is imminent. But
Viswanathan explains that this can easily turn into quicksand for
founders.

 - The most common mistake I've seen founders struggle with is falling
 in love with a particular product or solution and thus spending too
 many cycles on something that doesn't work.

Instead, she urges founders to focus on the problem. "In reality, even
the visionaries focused on the problem, not their prescribed solution.
Hendry Fords wanted to create a faster mode of transportation that every
person could afford, not simply " build the model T," she said.

"When starting Rupa, I had conviction in the problem and where the
market was going. I saw the way we think about health, wellness, and
medicine was changing. The first solution I started building was
a'Zocdoc-style marketplace' for holistic health providers. Insights and
feedback from that first product helped us get to where we are today,
but if I'd been rigid on sticking to that solution, we would have never
gotten Rupa off the ground," says Viswanathan.

## Lesson 2: Relentless grinding can't open up a dead-end, so pair your
gut feeling with logic.

After determining the initial product idea for Rupa, it was time to get
it in front of customers. Viswanathan quickly spun up a prototype with
an outsourced development team for just $800 bootstrapped from her
savings. This prototype allowed her to raise pre-seed funding and hire a
team of three employees.

However, after a year of banging her head against the wall trying to get
customer traction, the marketplace was not taking off. "We tried
everything to get this to work, from concierge, 1:1 text conversations
to help people find their doctor, hosting in-person meet-ups call Rupa
Circles, partnering with high-profile doctors at Standford, Sutter
Health, and One Medical, and numerous other product iterations," she
says. "To make it even more confusing, about 10 other holistic health
marketplaces had flooded the market since we started, so it seemed there
was significant market validation. I just kept thinking, 'We should be
able to make this work - why isn't it working?'"

So how do you know when to pivot and when to push through? Looking back
on her own experience, Viswanathan says it's a combination of gut and
logic. "My gut knew we were hitting a wall and this was not the right
direction, I just needed my brain to catch up and understand why a
marketplace wouldn't work. This culminated in an evenful Fourth of July
- I went to the office and read twenty essays on marketplace dynamics
  back to back. Those 10 hours was some of the most valuable time "

## Lesson 3: Bake a multi-layered cake - then cut single slice
 the goal was that building product would point to the biggest pain
 points and narrow our focus.
 - Finding product/ market fit is about finding the small problem that
 seem so simple and obvious in retrospect.


## Lesson 4: Set hilariously aggressive deadlines for your MVP.
You must create hilariously aggressive deadlines for yourself,
otherwise, you'll get swept away in unnecessary details that aren't
actually mission-critical. If you're thinking about color schemes and
button widths, your timeline is too long.

### 3 reasons to set inconceivably short deadlines in the early days:
 1. Build only what's necessary
 2. Get to the learning as fast as possible
 3. Protect yourself from fall in love with the idea or product - focus
    on problem first.

## Lesson 5: Assemble informal customer advisory boards with short
feedback loops.
 - Leverage texting to build authentic, impactful relationships.
 Do a text message thread with your customer is the absolute best option
 The fastest feedback loop for growth, and the faster you can create
 feedback cycles, the faster you'll find product / market fit.
 - Do simply being human can go a long way.

## Lesson 6: Don't overcomplicate your MVP - optimize for learning.
 - Do stripping the product down to the bare bones and getting it out in
 front of people for their reactions is critical.

