# LBOs for Smaller Companies

If you want to buy a company but don't have the cash, consider a
leveraged buyout. Headlines in the business press to the contrary, most
LBOs are not management-led megabuck deals for billion dollar companies.
Entrepreneurs have leverage to buy smaller, privately held businesses
for years: whenever buyer lacks the requisite cash and borrows part
of the purchase price against the target company's assets(receivables,
equipment, inventory, real estate) or cash flow (future cash), that's an
LBOs.

When I wrote my first article for HBR on leveraged buyouts 11 years ago
assets were all that buyers of smaller companies could borrow against.
Banks and finance companies were the principle LBO lenders then, with
the owner taking back a subordinated note for the different between the
purchase price and the amount the buyer could borrow on the assets.

Today the LBO is common and multiple financing sources and mechanisms
abound, though "cash-flow" leverage buyouts for under $5 million are
still unusual. Most financing continues to be asset based, but the
cash-flow LBO has helped complete a lot of deals exceding $10 million
when the target company's assets have been thin. (see - "The Limitation
of Cash-flow LBOs")

Here is advice to help you avoid some common pitfalls as you prospect
for the best LBO deal; my main goal is to keep you from breaking you
pick digging for a deal that in fact is not there.

## Cash Flow, Assets, and Price
In every LBO, whether cash-flow or asset-based, the first priority is to
satisfy the lender's requirements for the deal. Among a host of other
factors, lenders look at the relationship among assets, cash flow, and
price. As in a good recipe, all of these must be in sync for the deal to
work. The assets must be sufficient to protect the loan, the cash coming
in must be enough to service the debt, and the price must be in line
with cash flow and assets.

I know of a specialty printer that was for sale. It had two factors in
sync but not the third. The company, doing about $5 million in sales, or
about $1.25 million. The price was quite reasonable at $5 million, four
times pretax income. The problem was a lack of assets. Unlink many
printers, the company had equipment that was small, simple, and
inexpensive. This made the company efficient, but a buyer borrowing
against its assets (receivables, inventory, and equipment) would
scarcely net $2 million, leaving a huge gap of $3 million. Clearly, this
was not a doable asset-based LBO. The business finally sold through a
variation of a cash-flow LBO with the buyer getting together a group and
offering substantial collateral for the loan.

Remember that the cash flow must be used for at least three purposes; to
service the senior debt; to service the junior, subordinated debt; and
to pay the entrepreneur. If this stream is so small that what's left
over for the entrepreneur's salary is less than what's necessary to live
on, there's little sense in trying to do the deal. In the excitement of
the prospect of buying your very own company, this not-so-minor detail
can be forgotten. But don't jump into a situation that is just too small
for even the near term.

If the asset value is high for the price and cash flow, you can effect
an LBO by selling off the assets, using the proceeds to reduce the debt,
and then running the company with what's left. In larger deals, this is
called breakup value, which means that the value of the parts is greater
than the value of the whole.

One acquisition-minded group learned of a possible West Coast
divestiture by a New York corporation that apparently didn't know its
subsidiary held valuable real estate. The group bought the subsidiary,
then separated this hidden asset value from the manufacturing business.
Next, it sold the manufacturing business for as much as it had paid for
the whole package, including the real estate. The group was left owning
ten acres of desirable property at a zero cost basic! But before you get
your hoped up, let's put this deal in perspective: this was an
extraordinary coup. The reverse situation, too few assets, is much more
likely, calling for a cash flow LBO.

## What Are Hockable Assets?
Accepting the fact that there must be order in the cash
flow-assets-price trinity, the next question is how much those assets
you can actually borrow against. Balance sheet entries for account
receivable, inventory, and fixed assets can make it appear that a
company has more than enough assets to support an LBO, but some assets
tend to shrink in the eyes of the lender. I call the assets that
financial institutions lend generously against (and which are therefore
crucial) hockable assets. Cash, account receivable, inventory,
equipment, and land and buildings are, to one degree or other, all
hockable assets.

Cash, The most hockable. If you buy a company through acquisition of
stock, naturally you get all the assets, including cash. This cash, of
course, can be used by you to pay the owner. Given the impending demise
of the capital gain tax, however, the idea of leaving cash in the
business and selling it at capital gains tax rate is going by the board.
Nevertheless, the hockability of cash is always 100%.

Accounts receivable. There are about as many plan for borrowin on
accounts receivable as there are wholesale-oriented banks. But basically
there are two approaches, factoring and pledging.

In factoring, the company sells title to the receivable, with or without
recourse in the event of non-payment. One drawback is that factors
charge a steep financing cost. If the sale is without recourse, the
effective rate, including discounting the receivables, can be as much as
5% for 30 days, which is whopping 60% annual rate. For that reason alone
you'll likely want to avoid factoring.

But on the positive side, factors usually don't require an attractive
balance sheet or substantial net worth. This is why factoring is common
in companies with little net worth, such as apparel manufacturers whose
equipment is mostly sewing machines. Factoring is rare in most
industries, however, not only because of the steep interest rates but
also because the sale of accounts receivable tends to frighten away
customers.

Far and away, pledging is the more popular approach to borrowing on
receivables in an LBO. With pledging, a bank or finance company gets a
secured interest against the receivable by signing a security agreement
with the borrower and filling a financing statement at the state
capital. In so doing, the lender stakes out a claim against the
receivable and lends against its secured position. Title to the
receivable remains with the company.

To complete the deal, most buyers borrows every dollar they can. Banks
usually loan 70% to 80% of "eligible" receivables, or less than 70% if
they are leery. Be careful. Borrowing the maximum can get you into
trouble if you have underestimated cash flow. If you've borrowed 90% of
your accounts receivable and have to return to the bank with hat in
hand, where will borrowing base come from? But if 60% is loaned, the
bank can raise that to 70%, 80% or 90% if you need the cash.

To be eligible, a receivable usually must be no more than 90 days
overdue and must also pass certain other tests. Note that this means
overdue, not 90 days from the day of the invoice. In the hearing aid
manufacturing business, receivables tend to be quite old in the unusual
sense because the retailer/customers-who are usually
undercapitalized-must wait until they are paid before they can pay up.
Because Medicare is involved, the delays can be long. One hearing aid
maker trying to get a loan argued that its receivables were good
collateral even though they were old; the company's bad debt loss was
only 1%. But the bank said no; it held the nearly universal view that a
receivable older than 90 days is worthless.

Receivables must also pass tests regarding the "concentration factor" or
its opposite, the "dispersion factor." If a large percentage (whatever
that means) of a company's business is with one or a few customers, a
bank might conclude that the company has a concentration factor. This is
perceived as bad because if that customer stopped paying all of its
invoices, even for a short time, the sudden halt in cash flow-for
whatever reason-would spell potential disaster for the company.

There might be a way around this problem with receivables insurance
(available in some states) or by financing with a finance company. One
supplier I know did 90% of its business with Ford Motor Company; Ford
was obviously a good credit risk but it certainly had a concentration
factor. The banks wouldn't touch the receivables, but the supplier got a
load from a finance company that knew and respected the owner. In some
cases, a bank and a finance company may divide the loan until conditions
improve and the bank is able to take over the whole credit.

The dispersion factor is a consequence of having lots of small
receivables from many spread-out customers. Since collecting a small
receivable might cost more than it's worth, many banks will probably
decline to loan on all accounts receivable, not just the little ones.
One quick-printing company had more than 5,000 accounts with regular
orders of between $50 and $300, resulting in thousands and thousands of
invoices for tiny amounts. The company's receivables didn't comply with
the cookie-cutter mentality of a couple of major West Coast banks, and
they refused to do the deal. Eventually, a small but hungry
wholesale-oriented bank extended a loan on 80% of the receivables.

Buyers of service companies may face banks that won't consider lending
on the receivables at all. The logic behind this practice, or
non-practice, is a bit tenuous, but, in general, banks think collection
of a receivable is difficult at best when the product is a service.
Whatever the reason, be forewarned that if it's a service business
you're after, you might have trouble hocking the receivables, especially
with a bank.

Note that while finance companies usually have less stringent
requirements than banks, the rats they charge on hocked receivables
generally start where banks leave off. Banks' rate usually range between
two and five point over the prime rate, while finance companies usually
start at four or five point over prime.

### Inventory.
Of the three types of inventory-raw materials, work in
process, and finished goods-only raw materials and finished goods need
to be discussed. If a bank lends anything on WIP, it's either a miracle
or the bank is desperate to do a deal.

With raw materials, the hockability is basically a function of two
factors: whether the commodity has a well-established market and whether
the supplier of the item has a repurchase policy. One manufacturer of
heating and air-conditioning ducts used standard-sized, coiled-sheet
steel in standard gauges. The steel could be resold almost immediately
by a local broker, and that meant excellent hockability with just about
any bank.

When the raw material consists mostly of ready-made components, a lender
will study whether the supplier has a repurchase policy, perhaps with a
restocking charge. If the answer is yes, the hockability is excellent;
if it's no, the lender will probably decline the deal, even if the
dollar. Naturally, strictly custom-made raw material is virtually
unhockable, except for its scrap value.

Lenders looking at finished-goods inventory can also be choosy. A
product carrying a reasonably important warranty for the consumer will
surely lack hockability; a manufacturer out of business means a
worthless warranty, and consumers would likely buy only at a deep
discount. If, on the other hand, no warranty is involved, lenders may
feel reasonably safe in lending up to 50% of the finished goods' value.

Incidentally, the Small Business Administration (SBA) gives loan
guarantees on inventory financing. I know of a pot holder manufacturer
that had a huge inventory of cloth: Experts on its bank's credit review
committee saw that cloth was involved and immediately said they would
lend nothing against the inventory because its value was subject to the
whims of fashion. When the manufacturer explained that the cloth was for
pot holders and not dresses, and that the same material could be used
for years, the bank reluctantly said it would loan 25%. After more
negotiation, it agreed to 50% and said it would seek an SBA guarantee
for the portion of the total loan represented by inventory.

Because 50% is about the most that can be borrowed on inventory, trying
to do an LBO on a distribution-type company (where inventory is
important) is difficult at best. The ration of assets to purchase
price is invariably large, so non-LBO buyers will probably be able to
outbid the potential LBO buyer. Only if an inventory-rich company is
distressed which of course creates other problems-can an LBO be used to
acquire it.

### Equipment.
The standard for lending on industrial equipment (usually
including cars and trucks) is 80% of the quick-sale, or liquidation,
value. Most banks will require an appraisal, and the appraiser will come
up with both a fair market value for the equipment and a quick-sale
value. The difficulty for borrowers is that what is meant by quick sale
depends on whom you ask.

There are three types of appraisers for industrial equipment: standard
appraisal companies like American Appraisal Associates and Marshall &
Stevens, auctioneers or so-called liquidators, and equipment dealers. An
appraisal company will usually define quick sale to mean the orderly
disposition of equipment over a certain period of time, say six months.
A liquidator, on the other hand, will guess what the equipment would
bring if put on the auction block next week. (The logic of this escapes
me because it's inconceivable that any company would go broke that
quickly. If you're not talking about near-term liquidation value, then
you're referring to future liquidation value-but what future? And since
equipment's resale value stems from demand for the finished goods
produced, what will that demand be? Even so, bankers and finance
companies place a great deal of importance on the appraisal's quick-sale
value, and woe to the appraiser whose estimate can't be realized if the
company is liquidated.) It is this difference in definition that might
make the appraisal company's quick-sale price higher than a
liquidator's.

Equipment dealers represent yet another dimension. Their appraisals are
likely to be higher still, because dealers tend to see themselves as
serving the buying that hires them rather than the bank, and will boost
the valuation to help the deal go through. At least that's their
reputation. Given that fact, a lending purposes unless it has great
confidence in the dealer. Sometimes banks will demand that the dealer
guarantee the appraised price if the equipment must be liquidated
within, say, five years. That's a risk most brokers are unwilling to
take, but the rare bird might do it for a fee, such as 10% of the
appraised price. Whatever appraiser you choose, however, first get the
lender's concurrence. It would be unfortunate to pay for an appraisal
only to find that the lender you have in mind won't accept it.

### Land and buildings
Real property is probably the least complicated asset with regard to its
hockability(once it has been appraised). The rule of thumb here: 70% to
80% of appraised value is hockable value, with 90% being quite rate.
Tither the bank or the buyer may get the appraisal, but if the bank
doesn't get its own, it usually will require approval of the buyer's
appraiser.

## Be Careful of Debt, Losses, and Growth
Even if the target company has hockable assets, you should be wary of
other pitfalls before pursuing the deal.

### Debts
Equally important as the hockability of the assets is whether they are
already hocked. Obviously, when the present owner of a business has
already borrowed to the hilt, the lender will be unlikely to allow much
more borrowing. Existing debt that is adequately taken into account when
the company's price is determined may not be a big drawback in
evaluating an LBO. But many owners of closely held small companies
conveniently overlook the exist debt when talking price. They want a
multiple of pretax earnings for the company's stock, and when a multiple
of pretax earnings for the company's stock, and when you mention the
debt, they'll say, "What difference does it make?"

Of course, it makes a great deal of difference. The value of a company
equals the value of its stock plus the value of its debt. If you
subtract debt(often "spontaneous" debt like accounts payable and accrued
wages is ignored) from a company's value (as determined by an agreed
multiple of adjusted pretax earnings), the reminder may be so little
that a sale is not feasible for the seller. Often the seller wants to
retire, so you must find out whether subtraction of debt will leave
enough to permit the owner to do so.

If the value of debt (which most likely you lender will demand be paid
off) is not subtracted, you as buyer may in fact be paying more than the
talking price. I emphasize this point because in the excitement of
buying your very own company, you may treat its debt lightly, only to
find that the needed financing is not available. If a company is already
"hocked," no amount of enthusiasm will enable will enable you to hock it
again. Advice to current owners who anticipate selling the business
soon: try to reduce or eliminate secured indebtedness before putting the
company up for sale. If you don't, the price may be disappointingly low,
or the whole deal undoable.

### No turnarounds.
For some individuals, a turnaround-described as a company that is
currently losing money but with proper management will "surely" make
money-is the ultimate challenge, one they can't refuse. And doubly
enticing, turnarounds are usually priced "low." But if you expect to do
an LBO, you had better bypass turnaround situations. Lenders will look
to the current and recent past cash flows for debt-servicing payments,
and if the company is in the red, it can't service its debt. Banks don't
loan on projections-especially rosy projections; they want to see a
history of cash flow sufficient to service the debt, and no amount of
"yes, but." rhetoric will change their minds.

True, banks and other institutional lenders have acted strangely on some
of the mega-deals you hear about in the press, but for smaller deals,
this general statement holds. For the budding entrepreneur wanting to do
an LBO, a healthy company is much more attractive than a turnaround. No
turnaround can be priced low enough to be effective if the lender won't
lend any money for the deal.

### Too much growth.
Since growth eats up working capital, going into a growth situation via
an LBO is likely to cause cash flow problems. Once a lot of debt is
jammed into the company's cash-flow stream, trying to finance
significant growth internally may be overloading the system. If you
plans for the target require capital outlays for growth, you may need to
secure zero-coupon notes or interest-only loans from pension funds or
other institutions in order to do the deal. Remember, don't confuse net
income plus depreciation with cash flow if you are assuming a growth
scenario.

## A Compelling Reason to Sell
Of course, it's always better to be the only bidder when a company is
for sale. With an LBO, it is very important, especially if the LBO is
asset based. When a number of potential buyers are eyeing a target
company, some of the necessary conditions for an LBO become quite
difficult, if not impossible, to satisfy.

The biggest threat is a possible demand by the seller for an all-cash
deal. In an LBO, the owner usually takes back a subordinated note to
cover the difference between the selling  price and the loan. Because
the note is subordinated to a bank's senior debt, banks will regard it
as equity when they calculate the debt-to-equity ratio to determine the
loan amount. Without someone to take a subordinated note in lieu of the
seller (procedure called mezzanine financing), the deal will fail for
lack of defacto equity.

So a third party must be found if the seller won't take back the note.
This used to be difficult, but a few institutional and foreign
financiers now buy such notes in small enough amounts (less than $5
million) to make this size asset-based buyout possible. Savings and
loans are getting into the business of buying subordinated notes for $5
million or more, if they can get a yield of at lest 25% a year. And some
S&Ls are getting into the business of providing mezzanine financing for
deals less than $5 million.

And finally-a "must" that ranks second to no other-find out why the
company is for sale. Without a compelling reason to sell, an owner
creates all sorts of problems for the buyer who wishes to do an LBO.
First, the price may be unrealistic. "Well," such owners say, "we
thought we'd try it and see what happens." Moreover, owners sometimes
put up "for sale" signs just to test the market. Brokers will often
solicit such hypothetical listings. In Los Angeles, hardly a days goes
by without a call to the president of an attractive mid-sized company
from from a broker seeking a listing.

By a compelling reason to sell I mean circumstances like serious illness
or even retirement at a normal retirement age. When an apparently
healthy person of 40 or 45 wants to retire, you should question the
motive to sell.

An owner without a compelling reason to sell may be reluctant to accept
a note, particularly a subordinated, unsecured note. Some buyers have
solved this security problem by offering a second or junior secured
position on the equipment or other assets. The seller is usually well
protected, even though in second position: the appraised quick-sale
value is often much lower than the price the asset is likely to fetch in
a real market. Besides, the buyer is paying off the first loan first,
often over three to five years, and therefore is gaining equity in the
equipment.

For some time, leveraged buyouts have been a blessing for owners of
small or medium-sized companies wanting to sell their businesses. But
the LBO technique has developed dramatically in the past decade. True,
buyers had the ability to borrow on particular assets, but banks had no
appetite to lend against all the assets of a company. Of course, most
business-oriented banks that will do an LBO have gone through several
phases during the past ten years and today will probably take a hard
look at any proposal. And most banks are asking the buyer/entrepreneurs
to put up more of their personal resources. But if the whole deal is
structured properly, a bank can usually be found to finance the
purchase.
