# The Art of the Elevator Pitch
### Summary: 
Hollywood screenwriters typically get three to five minutes to pitch their movie ideas, but it takes only around 45 seconds for producers to know if they want to invest. Specifically, producers are listening for a logline: one or two sentences that explain what the movie is about. If there is no logline, more often than not, there is no sale. This is a valuable lesson for innovators in any field. Business leaders are often asked: What does your startup or product do? What's your idea? If they can answer in one compelling sentence, they can hook their audience and influence people to invest in their work. Though mastering the art of the logline is challenging, there are steps leaders can take to do so:
 - Keep it short.
 - Identify the one thing you want your audience to remember
 - Make sure your team is on the same page

Long before your favorite movie made it to a theater near you, it was
presented in a pitch meeting. Hollywood screen writers typically get
three to five minutes to propose an idea, but it takes only around 45
seconds for producers to know if they want to invest. Specifically,
producers are listening for a logline: one or two sentences that explain
what the movie is about. If there is no logline, more often than not,
there is no sale.

A winning pitch starts with a winning logline - a valuable lesson for
innovators in any field. The most valuable innovations offers novel
solutions to challenging problems. But without the support of investors,
even the best ideas might never get off the ground. To influence the
people who can turn your idea into reality, you need to delivery your
pitch in an exciting and straightforward way. All this starts with the
logline - an art that screenwriters have mastered.

When asked what their movie is about, successful screenwriters have a
ready answer that is clear, concise, and engaging. Business leaders are
asked a version of this same question throughout their careers.
- What is your presentation about?
- What does your startup or product do?
- What's your idea?

If you can answer in one compelling sentence, you can hook your
audience. According to molecular biologist John Medina of the University
of Washington School of Medicine, the human brain craves meaning before
details. When a listener doesn't understand the overarching idea being
presented in a pitch, they have a hard time digesting the information. A
logline will help you paint the big picture for your audience.

In Hollywood cinema, one of the greatest loglines of all time belongs to
the iconic thriller that kept kids out of the ocean during the summer of
1975:

- A police chief, with a phobia for open water, battle a gigantic shark
  with an appetite for swimmers and boat captains, in spite of a greedy
  town council who demands that the beach stay open.

What makes it work? The logline for Jaws identifies the key elements of
the story: the hero, his weakness, his conflict, and the hurdles he must
overcome - all in one sentence. It depicts the overarching storyline in
an interesting, straightforward way, rather than focusing on details that
might seem meaningless without the context of the bigger picture.

Business leaders can use loglines in similar manner to clearly explain a
complex idea. If mastered, this can be a powerful and influential tool.
But communicating your point in a simple, digestible way is hard. It's
actually easier to add clutter to business presentations than it is to
eliminate unnecessary details and condense. Though mastering the logline
s challenging, there are step you can take to do so.

## Keep it short
In his book Leading, venture capital investor Michael Moritz tells the
story of two Stanford graduate students who walked into his office at
Sequoia Capital and delivered the most concise business plan he had ever
heard. Sergey Brin and Larry Page told Moritz: "Google organizes the
world's information and makes it universally accessible." In 10 words,
that logline led to Google's first major round of funding Moritz said
the pitch was clear and had a sense of purpose.

A logline should be easy to say and easy to remember. As an exercise,
challenge yourself to keep it under 140 characters, short enough to post
on the old version of Twitter (before the platform allowed 280
characters per tweet). At 77 characters, the Google pitch makes the
grade.

### Identify one thing you want your audience to remember.
Steve Jobs was a genius at identifying the one thing he wanted us to
remember about a new product. In 2001 it was that the original iPod
allowed you to carry "1,000 songs in your pocket." In 2008 it was that
the MacBook Air was "the world's thinnest notebook." Apple still uses
this strategy today. Executives repeat a one-sentence description when
presenting new products. This same logline goes on to appear on the
Apple website and in the company's press releases.

The "one thing" should cater to the needs of your audience. A sales
professional for a large tech company recently told me a loline that he
uses to address the needs of his audience - IT buyers: "Our product will
reduce your company's cell phone bill by 80%." With one sentence, his
customers want to know more because his logline solves a specific
problem and will make them look like heroes to their bosses. Above all,
the logline is easy to remember and gives people a story they can take
to other decision makers in their organizations.

### Make sure your team is on the same page.
Every person who speaks on behalf of your company or sells your product
should deliver the same logline. For example, I worked with top leaders
at SanDisk, the flash memory company, to prepare them for a major
financial analyst conference. Seven executives delivered five hours of
presentations. I suggested tat - before going into nitty-gritty
financial of their presentations, and then end their presentations by
repeating it once more. As a group we decided on the logline: "In the
coming decade, flash will be bigger than your think."

The logline was meant to stir up excitement for all the products flash
memory would enable, like iPads, laptops, smartphones, and cloud service. As the conference concluded, the first financial blog post that appeard carried the headline: "Flash will be bigger than you think."
Loglines attract attention; consistent loglines are memorable and
repeatable.

If you can't communicate your pitch in one short sentence, don't give
up. Sometimes the language will come to you immediately, other times it
might take more practice. Be patient. Once you master the logline, you
will be able to easily clarify your ideas and help the audience retain,
remember and act on them
