### Communication
# The Art of Persuasion Hasn't Changed in 2,000 Years
## Carimine Gallo
#### July 15, 2019

## Summary.
More than 2,000 years ago Aristotle outlined a formula on how to become
a master of persuasion in his work "Rhetoric". To successfully sell your
next idea, try using these five rhetorical devices that he identified in
your next speech or presentation: The first is egos or "character." In
order for your audience to trust you, start your talk by establishing
your credibility. Then, make a logical appeal to reason, or "logos."

Use data, evidence, and facts to support your pitch. The third device,
and perhaps the most important, is "pathos," or emotion. People are
moved to action by how a speaker makes them feel. Aristotle believed the
best way to transfer emotion from one person to another is through
storytelling. The more personal your content is the more your audience
will feel connected to you and your idea.

---
Ideas are the currency of the twenty-first century. The ability to
persuade, to change hearts and minds, is perhaps the single greatest
skill that will give you a competitive edge in the knowledge economy -
an age where ideas matter more than ever.

Some economists believe that persuasion is responsible for generating
one-quarter or more of America's total national income. As our economy
has evolved from an agrarian to an industrial to a knowledge-based one,
successful people in nearly every profession have become those cap of
convincing others to take action on their ideas. Think about the role of
persuasion in our daily lives:

- Entrepreneurs persuade investors to back their startups.
- Job candidates persuade recruiters to hire them.
- Politicians persuade people to vote for them
- Leaders persuade employees to take specific plans of action.
- CEOs persuade analysts to write favorable reports about their
  companies.
- Salespeople persuade customers to choose their product over a
  competitor's offering.

In short, persuasion is no longer a "soft skill" - it is a fundamental
skill that can help you attract investors, sell products, build brands,
inspire teams, and trigger movements. Persuasion is so important to
billionaire Warren Buffett that the only diploma he proudly he proudly
displays in his office is a public-speaking certificate from a Dale
Carnegie course. He once tole business students that improving their
communication skills would boost their professional value by 50% -
instantly.

Words and ideas created the modern world, and words and ideas have the
potential to make you a star in you field, as long as you can persuade
someone else to act on them. Following the tactics of one ancient Greek
philosopher can help.

More than 2,000 years ago Aristotle outlined a formula on how to master
the art of of persuasion in his work "Rhetoric". Many great
communicators have used it throughout the ages to deliver some of the
most influential speeches, presentations, and hare their ideas with the
world.


### 1. Ethos or "Character"
To me, ethos represents the part of a speech or presentation when your
audience gains some insight into your credibility. Aristotle believed
that if a speaker's actions didn't back their words, they would lose
credibility, and ultimately, weaken their argument.

For example, in a now famous TED talk on reforming the criminal justice
system, Human Rights Attorney Bryan Stevenson begins, "I spend most of
my time in jails, in prisons, on death row. I spend most of my time in
very low-income communities in the project and places where there's a
great deal of hopelessness." You'll notice that Stevenson does not list
his degrees, accomplishments, and awards like he might on a resume.
Instead, he establishes his character for those in the audience who
don't know him. By doing so, he is building a sense of trust between
himself and his listeners.

As humans, we are hardwire to search for reasons to trust another
person, and we do so quickly. After all, our ancestors had an instant to
determine whether a stranger was friend or foe. A simple reminder that
you are committed to the welfare of others will build your credibility
before you lay out your argument.

### 2. Logos or "Reason"
Once ethos is established, it's time to make a logical appeal to reason.
Why should your audience care about your idea? If it will save your
audience money, for example, they'll want to know how much it will save
them and how the saving will be accomplished. The same reasoning applies
to making money. How will your idea help your listener earn a profit?
What steps do they have to take next? These are all logical appeals that
will help logical appeals that will help you gain support. Use data,
evidence, and facts to form a rational argument.

### 3. Pathos or "Emotion"
According to Aristotle, persuasion cannot occur in the absence of
emotion. People are moved to action by how a speaker makes them feel.
Aristotle believed the best way to transfer emotion from one person to
another is through the rhetorical device of storytelling.
More than 2,000 years later, neuroscientists have found his thesis
accurate. Studies have found that narratives trigger a rush of
neurochemicals in the brain, notably oxytocin, the "moral molecule" that
connects people on a deeper, emotional level.

In my analysis of 500 of the most popular TED Talks of all time, I found
that stories made up 65% of the average speaker's talk, where 25% went
to logos., and 10% went to ethos. In other words, the winning formula
for a popular TED talk is to wrap the big idea in a story.

What kind of story? TED curator, Chris Anderson, explains, "The stories
that can generate the best connection are stories about you personally
or about people close to you. Tale of failure, awkwardness, misfortune,
danger or disaster, tole authentically, hastens deep engagement." The
most personal content is the most relatable.

### 4. Metaphor
Aristotle believed that metaphor gives language its verbal beauty. "To be
a master of metaphor is the great thing by far," he wrote. When you use
a metaphor or analogy to compare a new idea to something that is
familiar to your audience, it clarifies your idea by turning the
abstract into something concrete.

Let's return to the example of Warren Buffett, one of the savviest
practitioners of persuasion. Buffett rarely gives an interview without
using metaphor to make his point. When you hear investors say they look
for companies surrounded by a moat, for example, it's a reference to a
popular metaphor he established. Buffett has said repeatedly that he
looks for companies that are "economic castles" surrounded by moats that
make it hard for competitors to enter the industry.

More recently, Buffett gave a speech at the 2017 Berkshire Hathaway
annual shareholders meeting, stating that the growth in healthcare
spending is the "tapeworm" of the American economy. Through this
visceral metaphor, Warren accurately described a serious problem eating
away at the foundation of our economic system. Buffett didn't have to
explain what happens when the tapeworm grows bigger. Newspapers and
blogs covering the event used "tapeworm" in their headline.

Those who master the metaphor have the ability to turn words into images
that help others gain a clearer understanding of their ideas. - but more
importantly, remember and share them. It is a powerful tool to have.

### 5. Brevity
Here again, Aristotle was ahead of his time. "Aristotle had discovered
that there are fairly universal limits to the amount of information
which any human can absorb and retain," writes Kings College professor
Edith Hall in Aristotle's Way. "When it comes to persuasion less is
always more."

Brevity is a crucial element in making a persuasive speech. An argument,
Aristotle said, should be expressed "as compactly and in as few words as
possible." He also observed that the opening of a person's speech is the
most important since "attention slackens everywhere else rather than at
the beginning." The lesson here is: start with your strongest point.

The good news for communicators is that Aristotle believed that
persuasion can be learned. In fact, according to Hall, he was viewed as
"quite threatening" to the political class in ancient Greece when he
made the tools of rhetoric available to the masses. They wanted to keep
the formula a closely held secret. But Aristotle wanted everyone to have
access to it. He championed the idea that a person's ability to speak
and write well, and to use rhetorical devices to change another's
perspective, could unleash human potential and maximize happiness. While
the tools we use to communicate ideas have changed in the past two
thousand years, the human brain has not. The same formula that worked
then will work now.

