# An interview with Marc Andresseen
Mon Sep 7 2020
March Andresseen is a cofounder and general partner of the venture
capital firm Andresseen Horowitz. He co-created the highly influential
Mosaic internet browser and cofounded Netscape, which later sold to AOL
for $4.2 billion. He also cofounded Loudcloud, which as Opsware sold to
Hewlett-Packard for $1.6 billion. Marc holds a BS in Computer Science
from the University of lllinois at Urbana-Champaign, and serves on the
board of a number of Andreessen Horowitz portfolio companies as well as
the boards of Facebook and HewlettPackard Enterprise.

It's a thrilling thing to build a new product, then watch as consumers
actually pick it up. But achieving product/market fit also marks the
beginning of a challenging time for a lot of founders. You've poured
your energy into getting here-now what?

Few people have as much insight into this make-or-break moment as Marc
Andreessen. As a repeat founder himself and one of Silicon VAlley's most
influential investors, he's seen firsthand that the decisions startups
make at this juncture are some of the most consequential they will ever
make. I spoke with Marc to get hist top recommendations for how startup
leaders can turn early success into lasting relevance.

### Elad Gil:
After you've achieved product/market fit, what do you think are the most
important determinants of a company's success? You have your first
product working, everything is scaling, everything seems to be going
great, but now it's time for you to do these three things. What are
those things in your mind, or what are the most common issues people run
 into?

### Marc Andreessen:
I think there are three big categories.
Once there's product/market fit, then the main thing becomes taking the
market-which is to say, figuring out how to get the product to the
entire market, how to get dominant market share; because most tech
markets tend to end up with one company with most of the market share.
And that company tends to be all the value that gets created in that
sector, from a return standpoint. That company also tends to have all
the resources to do everything else that they want to do including
build new products.

So winning the markets is the big thing.
The thing that is so essential that people need to understand is that
the world is a really big place. The good news is that markets are
bigger than ever. There are more consumers on the internet than ever
before. There are more businesses that use software than ever before.
There are more sectors of the economy where this stuff all matters. And
so the markets are bigger than before.

But that means that the challenge of building an organization, a model,
and a distribution capability that ca actually get the product to all
the customers is an intense challenge. And of course the personality
type of the technical founder who creates a breakthrough product, they
don't necessarily intuitively understand that next part involves taking
down the market.

That's number one. Number two is getting to the next product. We are in
a product cycle business. Which is to say that every product in tech
becomes obsolete, and they become obsolete pretty quickly. If all you do
is take your current product to market and win the market, and you don't
do anything else-if you don't keep innovating-your product will go
stale. And somebody will come out with a better product and displace
you.

So you do need to get to the next product. Of course that's a
punishingly hard thing to do. It was hard enough to get to the first
one, and to come up with the second one is often even harder. Although
the consistency between these two tasks is this: If you do take the
market, you tend to have the financial resources to be able to invest
heavily in R%D. And you also develop M&A currency, so you can then go
buy the second product if you have to. It gives you another option to
get to the second product.

### Elad:
And that can also use your established distribution that you can just
plug into, which is nice.
### Marc
Exactly. In fact, the general model for successful tech companies,
contrary to myth and legend, is that they become distribution-centric
rather than product-centric. They become a distribution channle, so they
can get to the world. And then they put many new products through that
distribution channel.

One of the things that's most frustrating for a startup is that it will
sometimes have a better product but get beaten by a company that has a
better distribution channel. In the history of the tech industry, that's
actually been a more common pattern. That has led to the rise of these
giant companies over the last fifty, sixty, seventy years, like IBM,
Microsoft, Cisco, and many others.

But then the third thing you need to do is what I call "everything
else," which is building the company around the product and the
distribution engine. That means becoming competent at finance, HR,
legal, marketing, PR, investor relations, and recruiting.

That's the stuff. That's the easiest to put to one side-for a little
while. If you've go a killer product and a greate sales engine, you can
put that other stuff aside for a while. But the longer you put that
stuff aside, the more risk that you develop and the more you expose
yourself to catastrophic failure through self-inflicted wounds.

Of course, the obvious one that we're all seeing right now it this
environment is HR. The number of companies in the Valley that put HR off
to the side and decided it wasn't important and are now dealing with
some level of catastrophe-either a public catastrophe or one that's in
the making-that's pretty high percentage of companies right now. And
it's totally unnecessary. If they had taken HR seriously starting at an
earlier point, they probably would have been able to fight a lot of
their issues. But for whatever reason they decided it wasn't important.
So HR has to be taken seriously.

Then there's legal. We see cases in the Valley where companies have just
decided that laws are optional, felonies are fine. And at some point,
not having a general counsel who's able to explain to the CEO where the
line is, that becomes a big issue.

And obviously finance. There are companies that blow themselves up
financially that don't have to, with wildly out-of-control cost
structures or horribly screwed-up pricing or whatever.

### Elad:
A common question for a lot of founders, especially first-time founders,
is when should they actually hire an HR leader or somebody in the HR
function or a GC [general counsel] or somebody for finance? Is that at
a certain round of financing? Is it at a certain revenue level? Is it at
certain number of people? When should you start adding those different
functions?

### Marc:
It's somewhere between 50 to 150 people. It's somewhere in there.
If you don't start layering in HR once you've passed 50 people on your
way to 150, something is going to go badly wrong.

I think there's actually an explanation for that. It's because 150 is
the Dunbar number, the number of people you can directly know. So
somewhere between 50 to 150 people, everybody doesn't know everybody.
There are people running around who other people have never met. When
you were 5 or 10 or 20 people, it was one big happy family and everybody
knew everybody-well, maybe it wasn't, but at least everybody knew
everybody. And the CEO had direct one-on-one relationships with
everybody in the company. Once you get to 50+, that's just no longer the
case. At that point there's a necessary impersonality of the
professional relationships in the company. And then HR catastrophes
emerge, because people trip the line from proper professional behavior
in a workplace to improper. There are just too many people running
around interacting.

### Elad:
Let's focus on each of these three points. When it comes to taking down
the market, can you talk a little bit more about the primary things that
people should be doing? 
And what do people tend to miss, or where do they tend to screw things
up?

## Marc:
I think the single biggest thing is that every market has early
adopters. There are early adopters for everything, and it's kind of
amazing that that's the case. But there are always people. There are
people on product sites every day looking for the next new consumer
thing to try. There are even early adopter CIOs. There are Fortune 500
CIOs who pride themselves on discovering the next new whatever it is-the
new relation database, AI, whatever it is. They're all over it.

And a lot of product/market fit is the fir with the early adopters. And
so you get these extremely enthusiastic people, who in a lot of cases
have sought you out as the vendor, saying, "Wow, your thing is really
cool. Can I please use it?" And that's your sign of product/market fit.

The problem is, the early adopters are only ever a small percentage of
the overall market. And so a lot of founders, especially technical ones,
will convince themselves that the rest of the market behaves like the
early adopters, which is to say that the customers will find them. And
that' just not true.

In the consumer world, it's not true because people have plenty of
existing things they can spend their time on. They have to be convinced
to try the next new thing. And so whether you want to call that
marketing or growth hacking or user acquisition or whatever you want to
call it, there's some distribution function there, for all these things,
that's critical.

And then for sure for B2B. Most businesspeople in the world, most CIOs
or whoever is going to buy technology in a business, don't wake up in the
morning and say, "Gee whiz, can I go find the next hot thing to take a
chance on?" That's not how businesspeople live their lives. And so there
needs to be some distribution capability to get them.

Again, the danger there is a market share thing. If you stick to the
early adopters, you'll get 5% of the market, but you're not going to get
95% of the market. And that means, sort of by definition, somebody else
is going to go get 95%.

One of the thing you see crystal clearly in VC is how much competition
emerges whenever anything works. Every single time we say,"Oh, this
startup is unique. There's some unique product here and there's not
going to be competition," invariably six months later there are 20
venture-backed competitors doing the exact same thing. And so at some
point, if the early guys don't get to the other 95% of the market,
somebody else is going to go take it away. And whoever has 95% of the
market, number one they're going to get all the value. All the
investment return, all the employee compensation flows to that company.
And then number two, that company then accretes resources so they can
work backward. In a lot of cases, they end up buying the company that
got the early adopters for a small percentage of their equity, and then
they just talk the whole thing.

### Elad:
You mentioned three or four tactical things that startups can do to stay
viable. 
- One is product iteration and building products that serve more of that
market.
- Second, you really emphasize building up distribution. 
- Third is M&A, which seems to be really underutilized in Silicon Valley
  today, at least in terms of the next generation of companies. If you
  have a $10 or $20 billion market cap, you should be buying things. One
  thing you didn't mention, but I'd love to hear more on, is moats-in
  other words, building defensibility into what you're doing. As you
  think about those four different factors, how do you rank them or
  think about common failure modes.
### Marc:
I am shocked by the absence of M&A relative to what I would expect in
the environment. And I would say there's no question that the big new
tech incumbents are not buying enough stuff just on the math. I think
it's just kind of obvious. In the old says, their predecessor companies
where far more aggressive at building up their positions for M&A. And
honestly, the Fortune 500, the big public companies, are not nearly as
aggressive as I think they're going to be.

I think this is a temporary lull. I think five years from now we're
going to be having a very different conversation, because it's just
going to become obvious that this is an underutilized thing. And I do
think that could be a very effective weapon, therefore, for somebody who
really figures this out and does it aggressively in the right way.

Cisco is one of the great case studies in the Valley. It's a very
successful, very big, very established company, and a very large
percentage of that has been M&A. And then obviously Google. Probably an
under-told part of the Google story is how M&A built Google. People, I
think, don't even necessarily remember the number of things that Google
bought that turned into what you think of today as Google-originated
products.

As far as defensibility, I think you construct defensibility through
some combination of product innovation and distribution building. You
construct it. You obviously want as much defensibility as you can get in
your product, and so you try to get as far out ahead as you can. It's
the idealized Peter Thiel model of "Build something nobody else can
build." Or the SpaceX model of "go get all the talent."

The problem with that is true defensibility purely at the product level
is really rare in the Valley, because there a lot of really good
engineers. And there are new ones every day, whether they're coming out
of Stanford or coming in from other countries or whatever. And then
there's the issue of leap-frogging. The next team has the opportunity to
learn from what you did and then build something better. So I think pure
product defensibility is obviously highly desirable, but it's actually
quite difficult.

I think the distribution moats end up being at least as important. At
some point, whoever has the distribution engine and gets 100% of the
market, at some point that engine itself is a moat. Again, that might be
an enterprise sales team for a SaaS company, or it might be the growth
team at a consumer company.

One interesting question I have is: Would you rather have another two
years' lead on product, or a two years' lead on having a
state-of-the-art growth effort? I think the answer for a lot of consumer
products is actually that you'd rather have the growth effort.

The other big missing variable in all of this is pricing. I've talked in
public about this before. What I don't hear from companies is,"Oh, we
don't think we have a moat." What I hear from companies is,"Oh, we have
an awesome moat, and we're still going to price our product cheap,
because we think that's somehow going to maximize our business." I'm
always urging founders to raise price, raise prices.

First of all, raising prices is a great way to flesh out whether you
actually do have a moat. If you do have a moat, the customers will still
buy, because they have to. The definition of a moat is the ability to
charge more. And so number one, it's just a good way to flesh out that
topic and really expose it to sunlight.

And then number two, companies that charge more can better fund both
their distribution efforts and their ongoing R&D efforts. Charging more
is a key lever to be able to grow. And the companies that charge more
therefore tend to grow faster.

That's counterintuitive to a lot of engineers. A lot of engineers think
there's a one-dimensional relationships between price and vale. They
have this mental model of commerce like they're selling rice or
something. It's like, "My product is magical and nobody can replicate
it, and I need to price it like it's a commodity." No, you don't. In
fact quite the opposite. If you price it high, then you can fund a much
more expensive sales and marketing effort, which means you're much more
likely to win the market, which means you're much more likely to be able
afford to do all the R&D and so we always try to snap people into a
two-dimensional mindset, where higher prices equals faster growth.

### Elad:
That's an awesome insight. I feel like there's two really key notes that
you brought up that typically aren't talked about. 
- One is distribution moats. I think people emphasize network effects
  and data effects way too much, and I've never seen a real data effect,
  at least recently. And then second is charging more equals faster
  growth. Those are really key things that people really don't talk
  about or think about.
### Marc: 
I think network effects are great, but in a sense they're a little
overrated. The problem with network effects is they unwind just as fast.
And so they're great while they last, but when they reverse they reverse
viciously. Go ask the MySpace guys how their network effect is going.
Network effects can create a very strong position, for obvious reasons.
But in another sense, it's a very weak position to be in. Because if it
crate a very strong position, for obvious reasons. But in another sense,
it's a very weak position to be in. Because if it cracks, you just
unravel. I always worry when a company thinks the answer is just network
effects. How durable are they?

To your point on data network effects, I would just say that we don't
see it very often. We see a lot of claims, and very little evidence. The
reality is, there's a lot of data in the world, and a lot of ways to get
data. We have not seen very many data moats that actually make sense,
even in science. Deep learning is the latest area where people think
there's data network effects. The problem is there's innovation in deep
learning to actually do deep learning on small data sets now. So even
the science strains underneath that in a way that's undermining it. So
that's risky.

### Elad:
I'd love to talk a little bit about getting the next product in the
product cycle. How do you start iterating and how do you come yo with
your v2 or your new product area? And how do you think about percent
investment in core adjacent versus completely new areas?

Google had a 70-20-10 framework. Do you think frameworks like that work?

### Marc:
I don't really like the numeric version of the answer because it's kind
of what big, dumb companies do. They say, well, we invest R&D as a
percentage. But anybody who's actually worked in R&D knows it's not
really a question of money. It's not really a question of percentage of
spend. It's who's doing it.

What I've always found is this: give me a great product picker and a
great architect, and I'll give you a great product. But if I don't have
a great product manager, a great product originator-it used to be called
a product picker-and I don't have a great architect, I'm not going to
get a great product.

### Elad: 
Google's framework, by the way, was percentage of people. So it was 70%
of human resources versus financial. But fair enough.
### Marc:
But it's kind of the same thing. I mean, it's a fine concept, but it
begs the question: Who are the people?

I would take more of a micro-view of it. Which is: Okay, how many great
product pickers do you have, people who can actually conceptualize new
products? And then how many great architects do you have, who can
actually build it? Sometimes, by the way, those are the same person.
Sometimes it's a solo act. And sometimes that's the founder.

As you scale, you need more of those people. But I always think it's a
matter of, okay, how many of those people do you have or can you go get?
Or, back to acquisition, how many of those can you acquire? And then
basically that's the number of products you can be working on. You want
to have a relatively flat R&D structure. You basically wasn't to have
autonomous teams, where each team is guaranteed to have a great product
person and a great architect. And that's the model.

This is why I always ask people, okay, let's just do an inventory of how
many of those people you think you have. And even at really, really big
companies, it's not a large number. Even at giant companies there might
be ten or twenty of each, maybe. And then you build the rest of the
engineering organization around those people, including all the rest of
the stuff that you do for recruiting and onboarding and all that other
stuff. But at the core of it, who do you actually have who can
conceptualize new products, and who do you actually have who can build
it?

If it's the founder, fair enough. But you need to construct the
organization so that the founder has the time to continue to do that. So
that gets to all the questions around when you need an outside CEO or
when you need a COO.
And then, even the founders who can do that themselves eventually run
out of time. And the challenges get bigger. So how do they attract and
retain people who can pick up some of that work for them?

### Elad:
If it does get distributed, do you have any perspective on whether ti
should be a general management, verticalized structure verus a matrixed
one?

### Marc:
I generally think matrixed is death, so I'm always pushing companies to
go to a flat structure of independent teams. I'm really on the Jeff
Bezos program on that, the two-pizza team thing. I think hirearchies
kill innovation for the most part. And I think that matrixes are just
lethal in most cases. There are exceptions, but in most cases, you need
original thinking and speed of executing, and it's really hard to get
that in anything other than a small-team format in my view.

