# The role of the CEO
Mon Sep 7 2020

- The role of the CEO: Managing yourself

In most business books, the role of the CEO boils down to a  small
number of key responsibilities. The CEO:
 - Sets the overall direction and strategy of the company and
   communicates this direction regularly to employees, customers,
   investors, etc.
 - Hires, trains, and allocates company employees against this overall
   direction while maintaining company culture.
 - Raise and/or allocates capital against this overall direction.
 - Acts as chief psychologist of the company. Founders are often
   surprised by the extend to which people and organizational issues
   start to dominate their time.
   
Many books emphasize the first two points-corporate strategy and culture
setting. However, you will find that in practice you have little time in
a high-growth, rapidly scaling company to think deeply about those
points until you hire a strong executive team and manage your own time
properly.

Instead of covering strategy-setting and big picture stuff, I want to
instead cover three key tactical duties of a CEO that often go
under-discussed: how to manage yourself your reports, and your board of
directors.
First and foremost: managing yourself. Because if you fail at that,
you're headed for burnout-and both you and your company will suffer.

## PERSONAL TIME MANAGEMENT
As your company scales, the CEO role will need to scale with it. The
demands on your time will grow nonlinearly, and more and more people
will ask for your time, including members of your team, your customers
(especially if you run an enterprise company), and various external
stakeholders such as investors, the press other entrepreneurs, etc. As
CEO, you will need to find a way to get leverage on your time-and learn 
to say no a lot.

### Key components of personal time management include:
 - Delegation.
 - Auditing your calendar regularly.
 - Saying no more often.
 - Realizing your old way of operating will no longer work.
 - Finding time for the things you care about in life.

#### Delegate
There are a few good ways for first-time managers to learn to delegate:
 - 1. Hire an experienced manager to run a team and watch how she does
      it.
      You'll notice she probably tends to hold regular 1:1s (to stay in
      sync with her team) while also trying to give the most rope to
      team members who run most independently. The very best executives
      tend to be a combination of a rounter(i.e., they send items on to
      other people for execution and end meetings with few to no action
      items for themselves), a strategist and a problem solver (i.e.
      someone who can identify when the team is off track and dive in to help).
 - 2. Trial and error.
    Try delegating and try again until it works. This will be part of
    any approach you take. You need to build some pattern recognition
    for when someone is starting to flail (they seem overworked and
    rumpled, they're late to every meeting, etc.) or when people have
    more slack in their time. You will learn to iterate on te size of
    responsibilities, teams, or projects you give someone and build
    confidence in their skills as they continue to add to their stack.

 - 3. Get a formal or informal mentor.
    Ask a board member, angel, fellow entrepreneur, or executive you
    trust to mentor you on management and delegation. Althernatively,
    assemble a set of CEOs whose companies are at the same stage as
    yours, and meet them regularly for dinner so you can compare
    notes-you can learn a lot from your peers.
 - 4. Get an executive coach.
    Most of these are bad (since any random person can dub himself an
    executive coach without any basis for it.) But some are quite good
    and can help you think through how to increase your effectiveness,
    including proper delegation.

However you choose to learn this skill, you'll also need to watch out
for key signs that you are not delegating the way the CEO of high-growth
company needs to:
 - You tend to leave meetings with many action items for yourself.
 - Someone now "owns" an area you used to run, but after 4-8 weeks you
   find you are still doing most of the work or weighting in on every
   decision, however small.
 - You feel the need to jump in on every email thread or attend every
   meeting across the company.

You can also over-delegate and abdicate all responsibilities for, or
involvement in, areas that are crucial to the  success of the company. I
have seen at least one CEO go into hard-core avoidance mode or get
distracted by the external spotlight. This approach can cause many
problems for the company, but it is less common, so I do not address it
in depth here.

The biggest reasons CEOs don't delegate:
 - They don't know how.
 - They don't have lieutenants they can trust or who have the right
   skill sets to operate at scale. See the section in this book on
   hiring executives to address this issue.
 - They are stuck in a work mode that made sense for a smaller company
   but doesn't for their fast-growing organizations.

The latter can be addressed in part by auditing your calendar and asking
yourself, "Do I really need to do this? Or can someone on my team do it
instead?" When in doubt, force yourself to delegate. You can even set a
weekly goal for the number or percentage of meetings you stop attending
or items you start delegating.

## Audit Your Calendar Weekly, Then Monthly
I encourage you to go through your calendar once a week and add up where
all your time is going. (Once you become proficient at this kind of
auditing, bumping that down to once a month or once a quarter should be
sufficient.) If your involvement is not uniquely crucial to the success
of a task, or an item is not core to your personal life, you should
figure out how to off-load it. In most cases, that will boil down to
simply learning how to say no, which we'll talk about next.

Often when I help high-growth CEOs audit their calendars, we find a few
common types of meetings they should skip 90% of the time:
 - First-round interviews.
    You don't need to be part of every first-round interview for every
    candidate. You can still talk to people in later rounds or as a
    final sell. Executive hiring is different and as CEO you may need to
    actively reach out to candidates. More on executive hiring in a
    later chapter.
 - Sale or partnership meetings.
    Who can go on your behalf? I am not advocating you skip all such
    meetings, but some you can probably skip. Note: Silicon  Valley
    product-or engineering-centric founders can often have the opposite
    problem of not talking to their customers enough. If you are a
    technical founder selling to enterprises, you will need to make the
    time to meet with customers regularly.
 - Every internal engineering, product and sales meeting.
    When do you really need to be there? Who can you delegate to? You
    can also move from a lot of point meetings (attending every
    engineering or product sub-team meeting) to a simple process that
    brings everyone to you for important decisions ("Weekly product
    synch with the CEO").
 - Random external meetings.
    See "Learn to say no" below.


If you identify areas the consistently consume your time, but should no
longer require the CEO, you can either delegate to someone on your team
or hire someone to take them on. Hiring is often easier said than done
if you are swamped, but you must force yourself to carve out the time.

If done right, after 4-8 weeks of self auditing you will start to open up
time to focus on strategy and the other key components of your company.
You need to be focused on the most important things-not on everything.
You also need the ability to take a step back and look at the big
picture. If you spend all your time on the tactical brass tacks, you
will steer the company in the wrong direction (or people will
self-direct in the wrong direction).

### LEARN TO SAY NO
One of the most important things you will do as CEO is learn to say no
to those things that are not the best use of your time. Just as at
some point you stopped taking out the trash and ordering food for your
startup, there are other items you should stop doing or push back on.
For example:
 - Items for your calendar audit.
    As mentioned above, you can skip things like first round interviews
    and many of the internal meetings you used to attend. Note that I am
    not advocating that you abdicate all involvement or responsibility.
    However, debating the nuances of database schema may or may not be
    the right thing for you to be involved with (unless your company
    sells a database product).
 - 6am customer or partner meetings.
    If your East Coast contacts will meet with you at 9am ET, they will
    also meet with you at noon ET. Don't take every meeting at any
    time-that will just exhaust you and not trally help progress. While
    doing whatever it takes for your customers continues to be crucial,
    you need to create limits so you don't burn yourself out. I have
    seen a number of CEOs continue to act like they are in scrappy
    startyo mode years after product/market  fit-often resulting in burn
    out.
 - Every press opportunity.
    Do you really need to talk to Dog Life Monthly Webzine for their
    "SaaS entrepreneurship" issue?
 - Every event. Choose the one or two highest-impact events to attend or
   speak at in a given quarter. You do not need to be everywhere. Be
   selective about the events you attend to free up time for other
   items.
 - Excessive networking.
    Networking is a crucial part of being an entreprenueur but take a
    look at your calendar: If large blocks of time are taken up each
    week with meeting other entrepreneurs or investors, you are probably
    not being focused enough with your time. Put networking into
    consolidated blocks so the switching cost is low, and focus your
    outreach on things that are actually meaningful to your company or
    to your personally.
 - Unnecessary fundrasing.
    Fundraising is a necessary side effect of having a company that
    needs capital to scale, but it's also hugely distracting. Some
    people seem to fundraise for no reason other than they think they
    should. Or becauese "a VC approached us, so we figured we may as
    well talk." Only fundraise when you are ready to do so and it
    supports a set of objectives for your company.
A big part of the transition from "hungry, no product/market fit CEO" to
"high-growth CEO" is realizing that the amount of downtime you have will
continue to collapse. You will need to say no to things that you would
have readily accepted before.

### REALIZE YOUR OLD PATTERNS OF WORK CAN NO LONGER APPLY
When you go from a small startup to a larger one, one of the unexpected
transitions is that the sorts of tasks that you can uniquely do to make
your company successful change. While you may be an excellent
programmer, if your team now has 50 or 500 engineers, it is unlikely
that writing code is the best thing you can contribute as CEO.
Similarly, your old patterns of personal and professional time
management will break down as more people either need, or simply want,
your time and attention. It may be painful, but to scale your
organization and move ahead as CEO you will likely need to let go of
certain parts of your prior roles that yo u enjoyed or thought were
important.


### TAKE VACATIONS AND TIME OFF
One of the mistakes I made in my first two-and-a-half years as CEO of
Color Genomics was that my vacations often were not real vacations. On
my first anniversary trip with my wife, I spend half a day on the phone
with a potential major partner. (Incidentally, the  partnership did not
work out.) On subsequent trips and vacations, I was constantly online,
on the phone, and effectively trying to work full time while supposedly
out of the office. This was also true for weekends-I was working every
day of every one. This path can only lead to burnout, and I now try to
truly unplug when away.

A CEO's energy levels dictate those of the team. You should find time to
take vacations and truly be offline-otherwise you will lose energy, burn
out, and potentially give up. This means once a year you should take a
real one- to two-week vacation, and every quarter you should take a
three-day weekend. If you are working every day, I strongly suggest that
you start enforcing a personal no-work day at least once a week. Burning
out will not help you or your company deal with all the stresses of
scaling.

In ways big and small, you need to remember to take time for yourself.
If you have a significant other, make sure at least one night a week is
held for date night-and really do something together that night.
Similarly, schedule exercise in the morning at least three times a week.
One way to enforce this is to hire a personal trainer or schedule
workouts or runs with a friend. That peer pressure will ensure that you
actually make it happen.

### WORK ON THING YOU CARE ABOUT
A common trigger of founder burnout is finding yourself working on
things that you hate. Some product-centric founders end up having to
spend endless hours on managing people, sitting hours on managing
people, sitting in meetings discussing sales compensation plans, sales
pipelines, marketing plans, HR issues, and other items that bore them to
tears. Mark Zuckerberg famously delegated big swaths of Facebook to
Sheryl Sandberg in order to free up more time to focus on product and
strategy.

If you end up working long hours on things you fundamentally couldn't
care less about, you should conside hiring one or more executives (or a
COO) to do all those things on behalf of the company. As a founder and
CEO, you do not need to be excellent at everything or enjoy  everything.
Rather, you need to build the competency within the company so that the
company collectively is excellent at these other functions.

When you take care of yourself, you'll be much better equipped to tackle
the next key leadership tasks of a CEO: managing your report (next
section) and managing your board of directors.

### THE ROLE OF THE CEO: MANAGING YOUR REPORTS
There are a few key elements to managing your team of reports. A lot has
been written about this topic already, so rather than write something
for the sake of writing, here are some relevant links and brief
suggestions.
 - 1. You should hold regular 1:1s with your team.
    Ben Horowitz has great advice on how to hold 1:1 meeting in a pair
    of posts.
 - 2. Once you are at about 30 people, you should hold a weekly staff
      meeting.
    - Schedule a regular weekly time.
    - Review key metrics.
    - Be ready with a set of key topics for discussion on broader
      company or product strategy or key issues a functional area faces.
      Different members of the staff can present on a specific key
      topics or issue each week.
      Note: this is not meant to be an opportunity for team members to
      give an in-depth update once a week-it is a forum for discussion
      of metrics and strategy.
    - Remember the purpose of the meeting may be more for your reports
      then for you. While you have context on what every executive is
      doing, the other executives will not otherwise have clarity into
      their peer' organizations. The weekly staff meetings are meant ot
      create a forum for knowlege sharing and issue raising,
      relationship building, collaboration, and strategy.
 - 3. You should start to add skip-level meeting as one way to stay in
      touch with the broader organizaion.
    As companies scale, the CEO often starts to lose touch with what is
    happening in the company. Information starts to get filtered by
    biddle managers or hires from big companies, who view their job in
    part as shielding the CEO from "unimportant" information. The
    problem is that they may wind up shielding you from ideas that you
    consider quite important to know. 
    
In a skip-level meeting, you meet with employees who work for your
reports or are further down in the organizational chart. Often extremely
bright junior people may have their fingers on the pulse of the market,
or may be alert to key new ideas or information. You'll benefit from
hearing from them, and these promising people will also benefit from
learning how you think about your company, product, market, and culture.

Skip-level meetings help you:
 - Create open lines of communication.
 - Identify and nurture new talent.
 - Get new ideas from people at the front lines of the company.

One key is to hold skip-level meetings without your reports feeling
threatened. If a person's manager shows up to what is explicitly a
skip-level meeting, there is likely something wrong with manager or
their management style. It is also up to you to clearly articulate yo
the numerous company so that they do not feel threatened or concerned.
