# CEO GROWING PAINS

Sam Altman runs Y Combinator. He was co-founder and CEO of Loopt, which
was funded by Y Combinator in 2005 and acquired by Green Dot in 2012. At
Green Dot, he was the CTO and is now on the board of directors. Sam also
founded Hydrazine Capital. He studied computer science at Standford and
while there worked in the AI lab.

Perhaps the biggest innovation in venture investing of the pas decade is
Y Combinator and the early-stage revolution it engendered. Since 2005,
YC has funded over thousand, including AirBnb, Dropbox, Gusto,
Instacart, Reddit, Stripe, Zenefits, and others.

Since Sam Altman took over as Persident of YC in 2014, YC has launched a
growth-stage fund, expanded the type of companies YC invests in, and
established a nonprofit research lab. In parallel, Sam has coached and
mentored many of Silicon Valley's smartest high-growth CEOs, drawing on
both his experiences as founder and CEO of Loopt (funded by YC in 2005
and later acquired by Green Dot), as well as his time working with many
rapidly growing startups as an investor.

Sam and I discussed an area he has thought deeply about: the role of the
CEO, and the hurdles that most often trip up leaders at high-growth
startups.

### Elad:
You mentioned that staying focused as a CEO-how to distinguish between
things that seem important but aren't and things that don't seem
important but are-is top of mind for you these days. What do you see as
the role of the CEO, and what are some common mistakes you're noticing?
### Sam Altman:
The role of the CEO is basically to figure out and decide what the
company should do and then make sure it does that. Many CEOs try to
outsource those things. Sometimes they want to hire a VP of product or
hire a COO and make him or her do everything. But really the CEO has to
drive the company's overall direction. There are a few other things that
only the CEO can do, or that the CEO at least has to be heavily involved
in, like recruiting and evangelizing the company to new hires, major
customers, investors, whatever. And there are some jobs where people
only want to talk to the CEO; fundraising is a great example.
But really the only universal job description of CEO is making sure the
company wins. And so deciding what the company is going to do and making
sure the company gets that done-that's the most critical part of the
job.

### Elad:
And that statement, if you unpack it, contains a lot of the sub-pieces
you hear a lot: Make sure you don't run out of money, make sure that
you're allocating resources to the right spots, make sure you're all
moving in the right direction.
### Sam

The hard part is that most people want to just do the first part, which
is figure out what the company should do. In practice, time-wise, I
think the job is 5% that and 95% making sure that it happens. And the
annoying thing to many CEOs is that the way you make it happen is
incredibly repetitive. It's a lot of the same conversation again and
again with employees or press or customers. You just have to
relentlessly say, 

#### "This is what we're doing, this is why, and this is how we're going
to do it."
And that part-the communication and the evangelizing of the company
vision and goals-it time-wise by far the biggest part of the job.

### Elad:
As companies scale, I've seen people run into the fact that they end up
with a lot of overhead. The bigger your company gets, the more time you
end up spending on process: Figuring out your sales comp plan and how it
should be structured, getting involved with certain aspects of customer
support and exception handling, and all the stuff. A lot of people start
to lose track of that bigger picture, of where the company should be
heading. Are there key approaches to avoiding that trap, where CEOs end
up on all the tactical stuff and forget to pull back out?
### Sam:
Everyone wants an answer like, "Well, you should not do any of the
tactical stuff," but actually a lot of it is really critical. The hard
part- and this takes most first-time CEOs a while to figure out-is
determining which is seems like a waste of time but is important, and
what seems important but is a waste of time?

For example, I do think figuring out compensation structures is really
important and something the CEO should spend time on. And it's something
that most CEOs don't. You're building what the company measures and what
salepeople get paid for, and that's one of those counterintuitive areas
that I do think is really important.

The trick to being effective at this is that you have to get really good
at saying no and just not doing things. There are a lot of things that
are urgent but not important. The hard part of being a good CEO is that
you have to be willing to let some things fall apart. You don't have
enough time to do everything well. And in practice, what that means is
that there are some urgent things that you just don't do. Getting
comfortable with that takes a long time. It's hard.

#### "You have to get really good at saying no." - Sam Altman

### Elad:
What are some examples of things you think are often urgent but don't
necessarily merit time if you're scaling like crazy and just trying to
keep up with everything else?
### Sam:
I saw one kind of crazy example recently, a founder from a company that
YC is an investor in that is not doing particularly well. I was talking
to him about how things aren't going that well, and he said that one of
the mistakes he made is that he has 74 investors. But he was really
proud, because for those 74 investors, he responded to every annual
audit request. They told him that he was one of the only CEOs that
responded right away. He was really proud of this. And I said, "Look,
this is a crazy thing. Your company is on fire. You go one not-important
tactical thing done while the company is failing, and you feel great
about that. All your investors, no matter what they tell you, will be
far happier with a big return that you responding to their annual audit
request." And he kind of got it in that moment. But it was this thing
that people told him was really important, that he had to do. He felt
good that he was doing that, even though he wasn't doing all these other
important things-like, you know, getting users and getting revenue.

The hard part of getting users and getting revenue is that it means
spending your time building stuff and talking to users-and the
implication is you should do nothing else. That's not entirely true, of
course, because there are things-we just mentioned employee comp
structure-that are really important. But there are all these other
things that seem important, like responding to investors' audit
requests, that you can just not do.

### Elad:
It sound like you just answered the question, but I'll re-ask: What are
the things that you think people should stay focused on as a company
scales?
### Sam:
If the CEO disconnects from the product, that's usually bad. And that is
something that you see happen to varying degrees as a company scales.
There are a lot of CEOs that say, "Well, I want to just go think about
strategy all the time. I'm really tired of managing people." Because
managing people is hard. And so lot of CEOs have tried a structure where
they bring on a COO (that's a good idea) and then stop going to the
executive team meeting(that's a very bad idea).

### Elad:
You mentioned getting disconnected from product. How much do you think
that depends on the founding team? How do you think about the broader
leadership team versus the CEO as the full driver or primary owner of
things?
### Sam:
I do think there are many examples of teams that have several strong
founders, where you see these roles get divided up. And I actually think
that can work really well. It's important to know who's doing what and
have some amount of clarity. But I think it can work really well to have
multiple people sharing the responsibilities.

### Elad:
How do you think the role of the CEO, and what the CEO should focus on,
shifts in a downturn? Or alternatively if the company is just not doing
well?
### Sam:
In general, the other thing that CEOs should not lose sight of is that
they're building businesses. And at some point they have to deliver
returns and make money. People always say that the CEO's job is not to
run out of money , and what they usually mean by that is fundraising.
But the other way you can do that is to make money. And so I think if
the company is not doing well or if the environment is really hard, it
becomes much more urgent that the CEO-who should never lose sight of the
financial performance of the company and the cash flow of the company-
is really looking at that all day.

### Elad:
When it comes to board management and communication to boards, what is
the most important role of the CEO?
### Sam:
I think the most important thing is that boards hate surprises. And
boards hate feeling like you're trying to hide bad news. You want to
over-communicate with boards for sure. Certainly if you have a bad news,
you want to get that to them ahead of the board meeting.


As a general operating principle, I also don't think it works super
well-most of the time, there are occasions when it does-to go into a
board meeting and say,"Hey, I'm rally struggling with this idea. What
should we do?" Not only because boards don't like that. (And in general
they don't; they want confident leadership.) But because in a board
meeting, you usually have all these weird dynamics of different VCs
trying to impress each other. You're actually just much better off to
have individual conversations ahead of time when you really want
open-ended brainstorming. You're likely to get better results.

### Elad:
Are there any other CEO distractions that you see a lot?
One thing I've noticed, for example, is that a lot of founders equate
press with success. So you see these CEOs chasing press, when that's
really not the most important thing they should be doing in many cases.
Unless it's a product like Twitter where the press is really the
customer acquisition mechanism very early on.
### Sam:
Yeah, I think it's almost always a huge mistake. Twitter is one crazy
example-as far as I can tell, Twitter's best users are still
journalists. If your customers are the press, then yeah, go after the
press. But most of the time press feels great and delivers nothing.
There are exceptions; that's a little bit of an overstatement. And it's
usually somewhat easy to get press if you're doing something
interesting. But I think most founders-actually, I'm pretty confident in
saying almost all founders-overweight the importance of press. So you
should do it. It definitely can be helpful, and there's clear value in
it. But you see far more startups make the mistake of orienting  their
entire company around press than making the much smaller mistake of not
focusing enough on press.

### Elad:
Speaking at events, too-it seems like people will end up on these
speaking junkets versus being in the office and focusing on the business
or meeting with customers.
### Sam:
Yeah, a lot of founders fall in love with that. It's not that hard and
you get to travel and your company pays for it. And you feel special.
The point that I always try to make is that it's important to do very
small amounts of that. Less is more. If you look at most successful
founders, they're not the ones that are on the circuit.


### Elad:
What are the biggest challenges you see as companies scale? And how
does the role of the CEO need to change accordingly?
### Sam:
I think the biggest change people fail to makes is that at some point
your job becomes more about hiring people and working with them to get
what you want done than doing it yourself. The number one failure to
scale that we see in CEOs is the failure to make that transition. You
need to be conscious as it's happening, and realize that at some point
you'll get far more leverage on your time if you hire people and work
with them closely that try to do everything yourself. And that's a hard
transition for many CEOs to make.

### Elad:
how do you see people navigating that well, or what are some tips to do
that effectively?
### Same:
No one does it well the first time.
No one is naturally good at letting go of something they care deeply
about. So, I think you just have to give yourself permission to screw it
up for a while . You can internalize that it's important to delegate
and give people authority, but you won't do it well the first few times.
Just continually try to get better at it.


### Elad:
Relatedly, I think CEOs often forget that the same thing is  happening
to members of their team who joined early, maybe just out of  school,
and who are managing for the first time. They need to learn that skill
too. And so you see, at some point of scale, different team members bite
the dust in terms of effectiveness. Then the organization limps on until
they figure how to either coach that person or bring in somebody more
experienced.
### Sam:
Yeah, this is actually a pretty systemic mistake that I think very few
companies get right, which is how you evolve early employees. Obviously
I think that's a really important thing to do. These people have been
with you for a long time. They're probably extremely talented-if you've
done well, you usually have very good early employees.
A) I think it's the right thing to do for the employees, 
B) I think they have institutional knowledge that no one else does. It's
really worth trying to keep them.

### Elad:
When those early employees haven't scaled to the point where you want
them to, though, what do you do? Do you try to offer them an individual
contributor role? Do you offer them more of an influencer role, where
they're, say, a CTO but don't have direct-line reporting? Do you get a
coach for them?
### Sam:
I don't think there's a one-size-fits-all answer to that. What I tell
people is just that I think it is really worth more effort than you
would normally spend on an employee to try to figure it out.

### Elad: 
Do you have any advice for people who are trying to scale as CEO, but
are so busy that they don't have the time to properly hire the people
that they need? Is literally the only thing they can do just take a big
step back and not get certain things done?
### Sam:
I have come to that belief. It's never easy advice to give or to hear,
but I haven't seen anything else work.
When you're at these breaking points. I think what happens is most CEOs
find some sort of formal or informal coach, often a board member. In my
case it was one of my board members. We set up a dinner once a month. I
would talk to him, and he as incredibly generous with his time. He was a
former, very successful CEO. And I basically said, "Hey, things are
breaking. This is not going to go well. Will you teach me how to be a
CEO?" And he did. I think most founders find someone to have a similar 
dynamic with.

#### "People always say that the CEO's job is not to run out of money,
#### and what usually mean by that is fundraising. But the other way you
#### can do that is to make money." - Sam Altman

### Elad:
I think a lot of people too should actively look for that, or reach out
to people that will have those additional experiences and are willing to
put in the time. You have to be very proactive about it and  figure out
what do you want form that person.
### Sam:
One of the hard things is that, as the landscape of investing has
shifted, there are fewer and fewer investors willing to really put in
the time on one company. And that is really bad in this particular case.


### Elad:
One way we've tried to manage that at Color Genomics is by finding
investors who don't have a lot of angel investments but who've built
businesses from the ground up. There's a number of people like that out
there, but traditionally people didn't go after them as investors.
People just stick to the same pool in Silicon Valley.
### Sam:
Yeah, I think that's incredible and a really, really good thing to do.
Founders don't realize how important that is until things break. And so
they go for the big name investor or the investor paying the highest
price. And then a year or two later, everything is on fire and they
really wish thy had allocated their round differently.
