# Building the executive team

## HIRING EXECUTIVES
First-time founders or CEOs typically find it hard to hire the first
executives to join the team. As a founder, often without deep work
experience, you have pulled off the impossible and created a product or
service lots of people want to use or pay for. And you did so without
any fancy executive-type people from Google or Facebook, with their
expensive paychecks and reliance on process.

At some point, however, you will notice that lots of thing start to
break down. Communication within the company gets gummed up. Various
product teams start to lose coordination. You don't have time to get
every important thing done in the day, and indeed you start to run out
of time to think. You hiring process falls apart, and it takes weeks for
you to follow up with candidates. Your sales pipeline is largely
dependent on you and a handful of inexperienced individual
contributors-and suddenly follow-through crashes to a halt.

You may try to promote existing employees(who also have no prior
experience) to run various areas, and in most cases this fails or does
not really help anything.

Suddenly you realize that you really need someone with more experience
on your team.

Hiring executives for the first time can be quite tricky for a founder.
However, once you hire your first seasoned exec who work out, you will
be grateful for her presence. All sorts of things will magically just
get done. People will get hired, deals will get closed, process will
tighten up. It can be a wondrous experience. You will kick yourself for
not hiring an experienced, high-capacity executive sooner.

Unfortunately, thing could also go badly. The executive is a bad culture
fit, or is too senior for the role and spins his wheels.
Time is wasted and progress lost on a poor fit-or even worse, some of
the best people on your team quit when managed by someone who's not
working out.

Finding a great executive for your company can be challenging, but it's
well worth the effort. And there are some steps you can take to maximize
your chances of success:
## HIRE FOR THE NEXT 12-18 MONTHS
If you have a 10-person engineering team, and in 12 months it will grow
to 30 people, you do not need to hire an SVP from Salesforce whose job
is to manage a 1,500 people team. This person will get bored with the
small job offered to her and may simply spin her wheels. She is too
senior for the role.

When hiring executives, look for people who have the experience and
background that would make them a good fit or hire for the next 12-18
months. Anything shorter than that and they will not be able to scale
sufficiently for relative to the time it takes to hire them. Anything
longer and you will over-hire and end up with someone who is a bad fit
for the job.

## TRAITS TO LOOK FOR IN EXECUTIVES
Whatever the role, there are a few key skills and traits that you want
your executives to bring to the table:
 - 1. Functional area expertise.
        - Do thay understand the major issues and common failure points
          for their functions?
        - Do people in their organizations respect their opinions and
          feel they can learn from them?
        - Are they right for the current scale and trajectory of your
          company? You can over-hire for a position, as well as
          under-hire, given the phase your company is in. For example,
          do you really need to hire Rute Porat, Alphabet's CFO, to
          manage the finances of your pre-revenue 10-person team?
 - 2. Ability to build and manage a team in those functional areas.
    - Can they recruit exceptional people?
      Can they build a recruiting culture within their teams?
    - Do they know how to motivate people in their functions? The
      incentives for a saleperson are different from those for a product
      manager.
    - Can they effectively manage people from their function? Managing
      designers, for example, requires different approaches than
      managing a customer support team.
    - Do they understand how to build out an organization with multiple
      layers if needed? How deep of an organization have they managed in
      the past, and how does that fit your current needs (again think
      12-18 months here)?

 - 3. Collegiality
    - Do they play well with other executives who are their peers?
    - Can they consistently get other executives, and the CEO or
      founders, on board with team changes, promotions, road maps,
      goals, etc.? (Exec-to-founder communication may be its own magical
      art, depending on how introverted or opionionated the founders is.)
    - Are they able to understand underlying issues and communicate them
      within their teams? Are they able to communicate to the board,
      external partners or customers, and other major stakeholders?
    - Do they have "cross-functional empathy" that allows them to work
      with, and communicate effectively to, other functions they work
      with closely?

 - 5. Owner mentality.
    - Do they take ownership of their functions and make sure they are
      running smoothly and effectively?
    - Do they own problems and solve them? Can they engage in "black box" abstraction of their functions so the CEO can engage on them, but does not need to be involved day-to-day?
    - Do they understand that, as company executives, they should think
      like owners?

- 6. Smarts and strategic thinking skills.
    - Do they think strategically and holistically about their
      functions? Many people don't realize that almost every function
      can act strategically. It is a good exercise to ask yourself as
      CEO, "What does a strategix X org look like?"
      (where X can be HR, ops, product, etc.).
    - Do they think about how their functions can be a competitive
      advantage for the company? Most companies are only good at one or
      two things, which is often enough to be successful. But companies
      that can tackle more than one thing well tend to outshine everyone
      else (e.g. Apple with hardware design, supply chain, and marketing).

    - Are they first principles thinkers? Can they apply their expertise
      in knowledge in the context of your company, team and product? OR
      do they just try to implement exactly what they did in their last
      role?

### "Once you hire your first seasoned exec who work out, you will be
### grateful for her presence. All sorts of things will magically just
### get done. People will get hired, deals will get closed, process will
### tighten up. It can be a wondrous experience." -Elad Gil

## DEFINE THE ROLE AND MEET WITH PEOPLE WHO DO IT WELL
Most of the time, a founder will have no idea what to look for when
hiring someone to run a particular company function. What does a CFO,
general counsel, or even VP of sales really do day-to-day?
How can you spot someone who is exceptional at each role? What
characteristics should one type of VP have versus another? For example,
how does a VP of engineering differ from a VP of sales, or even a CFO?

If you want to learn more about what a great CFO of VP of engineering
does, your best bet is to reach out to people who great at these roles
and ask them for advice. Your investors or mentors may be able to
suggest which companies have the best people for each function. For
example, if you are hiring a CFO, go and meet three of four great CFOs
at companies a few years ahead of your or larger public companies known
for excellence like Google or Netflix. What would they hire for in a
CFO? What traits would they look for? What interview questions, work
projects, test reference-checking questions, or other approaches would
they take to vet a candidate in this area? For your company size and
18-month growth road map, what should you look for?

In order to get in touch with great leaders in finance, sales,
engineering, and more ask your investors or advisors for introductions,
Or, you can ask the founders of other companies that are a few years
ahead of you to introduce you to their CFOs or VPs of product for advice
and perhaps candidate suggestions.

Once you have figured out what you want in the role, write it down and
share it with the team that will be interviewing candidates for that
executive hire. You want everyone to have a common view of what to look
for, as well as what to select against. You can also use this as an
opportunity to reemphasize the cultural characteristics the candidate
must embody. Clearly establishing what you are hiring for will make a
huge difference as you collect your team's feedback and discuss
candidates. It will also prevent poor hiring (or, alternatively,
rejection of a great candidate)  due to a lack of common understanding
of what you are looking for.

## KNOW THAT YOU WILL SCREW IT UP ONCE OR TWICE
Some companies are known to have turned over their entire first (and
even second) executive team over time. Facebook, ofr example, let their
first executive team go early on and saw quite a bit of executive
turnover until Sheryl Sandberg and others came on board.

While you should establish processes to ensure that you have a high
hiring success rate, you also need to recognize that you will make
mistakes. And that's okay-as long as you learn from the mistakes and
iterate on your hiring process. I have seen too many founders take too
long to make hires out of fear of doing something wrong. As a founder
you need to give yourself permission to make hiring mistakes as long as
you are willing to quickly correct them. You obviously cannot make too
many of them, but an occasional error is correctable and, frankly,
expected.
