# HIRING A COO

Aaron Levie is Chief Executive Officer, cofounder and chairman at Box,
which e launched in 2005 with CFO and cofounder Dylan Smith. He is the
visionary behind the Box product and platform strategy. Aaron is sought
out by many founders on topics of scaling. Aaron attended the University
of Southern California from 2003 to 2005 before leaving to found Box.

I spoke with Aaron Levie about the COO question-that is, whether (and
when) to add a chief operating officer to your executive roster. Five
years after Aaron and Dylan founded Box, they brought on Dan Levin as
COO, in 2010, so I was eager to ask him more about that transition.

Levie's a big proponent of adding to the leadership team, so I asked him
to weigh in on the merits of hiring a COO and share a little bit about
how the decision played out at Box.

### Elad:
You were the driving force behind hiring a COO for Box back in 2010. Why
did you decide to do it on your end? Do founders need to reframe how
they think about the COO question?
### Aaron Levie:
A lot of times, at the board level, a conversation will start with, "Do
we have the right CEO?" And especially for early founders, you ask
yourself that question. "Am I going to be a good CEO? Am I going to be
able to scale the company?"

But when you ask that kind of question, you end up defining what a CEO
is in unnecessarily strict terms. Whereas, actually, the most important
job of a CEO is just to make sure that the company succeeds. So if
there's a whole chunk of work that you're not good at, you don't
personally have to be good at it to be a good CEO. You have to make sure
the company is good at it to be a good CEO.

Early on, when we were scaling Box at 20 or 30 employees, we came to
this question. And I asked myself, "Do I look like these other CEOs that
have scaled big companies?" A lot of times it didn't feel like I was
like them. I focus on a very different set of things. I don't really
like all the stuff that they like to do. But I ended up realizing that
it was actually just my job to make sure that we got all of the problems
solved, not that I had to personally solve them all.

I end up seeing a lot of companies make this mistake-and it's obviously
happening much less these days than in the 90s and early 200s-where you
shoot the funder and then bring in an experienced CEO. Imaine all the
better outcomes we would have if those companies actually kept their
founders focused on what they're great at, and then added counterparts
to help them build the business.

### Elad:
So you see the COO as a counterpart to the CEO. How can leaders go about
defining the role in concrete terms?
### Aaron:
I think COO is probably one of the most generalized jobs, but ultimately
one of the most specific to the individual and to the company. Unlike
CMO or head of product or whatever, where generally you know what's in
their purview, COO is highly variable. If you found five companies with
COOs, the job descriptions of those COOs, or the things that they were
responsible for, would be different by each company. The way that Sheryl
Sandberg operates at Facebook is likely different than how the COO at
Yelp operates, which is different than how the COO at Box operates. So
first, I would just dispel the notion that COO is one particular type of
job or type of function.

I ended up bringing on a COO because I wanted somebody who had a depth
of experience in scaling up companies and organization and working in
large environments, to be a sort of counterpart as we were building the
business. I cofounded the company with a friend from college, and
neither of us had any kind of real scale experience. So by bringing in a
COO who had managed a thousand-or multi-thousand-person organization and
had managed multiple hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue for a
very large business, we could bring on experience in all the sorts of
disciplines we were looking for.

In our particular situation, the COO that we brought on was formerly a
general manager of a large division of Intuit, and a CEO prior to that.
So he had a lot of experience owning all the major functions of an
organization. He had a particular interest in things like talent
development, organization design, and scaling up of organizations-so a
very people - oriented COO.

In general, we created a structure where he really owned building up the
company and really owned building up the individual organizations. And
then my job was focusing on strategy and where we want to go over the
long run. I stayed highly tuned toward things like the product and the
product strategy.

### Elad:
That makes a lot of sense. It seems like many people claim that the COO
role is sales and the CEO handles product and engineering. But there are
so many counterexamples. So that really resonates with what you're
saying: each company is different.
### Aaron:
Yeah, I think that my best description of why and when to get a COO is
this: If you as the CEO are uniquely strong in couple of areas, and you
want to supplement or complement those areas-if you need to fill the
gaps-consider a COO.

No matter what, your business needs to have a well-running set of
organizations. And if you're not interested in managing those
organizations, or you don't have the bandwidth, then you need some kind
of counterpart to help you.

If you're a very sale-oriented founder, then you might get somebody to
augment on the product side. If you're a very product-oriented founder,
you might get somebody to augment on the sale side. If you're a very
sales- and product-oriented founder, you might get somebody to augment
you on the pure operational infrastructure side. There are so many
different flavors of what this means. In most cases, it's actually just
as important to understand and be clear about what the CEO does as it is
to understand what the COO does.

### Elad:

