# PART 1: HIRING, MANAGING, AND FIRING EXECUTIVES

Keith Rabois is an investment partner at Khosla Venture. Since 2000, he
has been instrucmental in driving five startups form their early stages
to successful IPOs, with executive roles at PayPal, Linkedln, and
Square, and as a board member with Yelp and Xoom.

Aat Khosla Ventures, Rabois has led investments in a broad array of
startups including DoorDash, Stripe, Thoughtspot, Affirm, Even
Financial, and Piazza. While working as a VC he simultaneously cofounder
Opendoor, a startup in the real estate tech world.

I sat down with Keith Robois to talk through some of the nuts and bolts
of pushing a hypergrowth company to the next level:
When (and why) to IPO, how to find stellar executives, and why a lot of
founders need to pare down their roaster of direct reports.

### Elad:
I think a lot of founders struggle with how to hire their CFO, their
first general counsel, even their first even VP engineering. Those may
be functions they're unfamiliar with, or functions where they don't
really have a network. I guess the first part of hiring is knowing what
"great" is for a role or function. How can a founders who's never done
it actually know what's great?
### Keith Rabois:
That's a very significant challenge for people hiring outside
disciplines that they've actually worked in. So a great designer tends
to know how to hire a design lead. A great engineer may know how to hire
a VP of engineering. But they may not even know what a CFO does, let
alone what a great CFO is versus a good one versus an excellent one.
One technique I learned, actually from Brian Chesky at Airbnb, is to go
find the five best people in Silicon Valley that do that role, and just
have coffee with them. And just chat. In that dialogue, I think you form
an ability to benchmark the differences between an A+ and a B+, so that
when you meet new candidates, actual candidates, you can triangulate
against the people you've met that are clearly stellar. And so you
should use your board, your investors, any connections you have to get
introduced to the five best people, and then spend some time.

Secondly, if you have great investors or board members, absolutely they
probably have some experience in hiring some of these role. And you want
to rope them into the interview process earlier rather than later. That
can be a high-leverage move.

But it is challenging. You may be able to find a friend or colleague or
comparable founder who actually grew up with a different background than
you that you can trust, and ask him or her to interview people. Back in
the day, after I left PayPal and was doing some other startups, the
biggest challenge for me, not being technical, was to hire a VPE. So
when I'd get to finalists for VPE positions, I'd ask Max Levchin, who's
an extremely strong technologist, to interview the one or two finalists
and give me feedback. Obviously I couldn't borrow all of Max's time, and
I couldn't constantly ask him to interview people. But when I'd get down
to one or two choices and it was a really important hire, I'd ask him to
send me feedback.

### Elad:
Outside of either board members or venture investors, how else would you
go about sourcing an executive? Would you use a recruiting firm?
### Keith:
I would. For senior executives, executive recruiters can be very
beneficial. And what I mean by that is if it's a C-lever officer, or a
VP or above, executive recruiters really know how to surface candidates.
They don't know how to get you directors or more junior managers. but if
you're actually aiming at the high end, I think an executive recruiter
can be very beneficial for two reasons:

- 1) they have a network. They know who's on the market, who's looking
around for new opportunities. They also know reputations. They've
probably performed reference checks on these people before. And you can
avail yourself of that.

### - "One of the things you should always ask is, If this person joined my
###  company, would  you join?" - Keith Rabois

- 2) They will install some process. Just the discipline of having
  weekly meetings can accelerate your search. So I think that's a very
  good idea. I highly recommend it for senior hires. It's not that
  expensive in the grand scheme of things. You're talking about $100k,
  which, if you're hiring a great CFO or VP of engineering is totally
  worth it.

A lot of the VC firms that you may be working with also have internal
executive recruiting and talent partners that are high-end executive
recruiters, or were. So you can leverage them for free. For example, we
meet with senior executives at companies as they're starting to think
about moving on. And we will figure out what their criteria and skills
are and try to repackage them and recycle them into portfolio companies.
So that can be a free way of jump-starting the process, which is not a
bad place to start.

In addition, these days, use social media like Twitter. You know, if
your company is doing really well, post that you're hiring a CFO. You
never know who responds that you might have been afraid to approach. I
see some of our companies having great success with tweet about "I've go
this great opportunity." So there's a lot of room for creativity as
well. But I think the basic blocking and trackling of using an executive
recruiter can work.

Now, there are some disadvantages of using an executive recruiter that
are worth highlighting. Their incentives is to close a deal; they get
paid when you hire somebody. So they're going to want for you to hire
somebody. And they may, if they're not an awesome executive recruiter,
be biased toward people who are easier to close. Just classic incentive
alignment. They will find people that are easier to close than you dream
candidate. You job as a CEO is to get your dream candidate, and it may
take you a year to get your dream candidate sometimes. So there is a
little bit of a misalignment there that's worth tracking.

However you source candidates, one key criteria for any executive is
their ability to attract and become a magnet for talent. So when you're
doing reference checks, you really want to understand: 

Does this person have a pool of amazing people that will want to join a
company? Can they immediately upgrade the entire talent of the
organization because they're so talented that other smart people really
want to work with them?

That's something you can tell from reference checks. And you should
thoroughly do reference checks on executives, without fail. There are
sometimes excuses why individual contributors don't get
reference-checked to death. But with executives, there's no  reason ever
for hiring someone without thorough reference checks.

So, when you talk to various colleagues of this person, one of the
things you should always ask is, "If this person joined my company,
would you join?" And yeah, people may say, "I'm retired" or "I'm a VC
now," and all these reasons. But fundamentally you should hear in their
voice "Absolutely, yes." At least some of the time. It doesn't have to
be a hundred percent of the time, but you want to hear that. And if you
don't hear that spark, there's probably something there that's worth
really probing into.

### Elad:
One of the things that I tell founders often is that they should give
themselves permission to screw up when making an executive hire, because
I think fear really stymies or prevents people from going ahead and
doing it. What do you think are signs that somebody is working or not
working out as an executive, and how quicjly can you actually tell?
### Keith:
Usually for an executive, it's pretty reasonable to know in 30 days,
certainly by 60. It does depend upon the complexity of the business.
Some business are incredibly complex, like, let's say, Opendoor, where
even the best executives in the world take a little bit of time to
master how everything connects.
But typically executives are super savvy.
The pattern recognition that they've developed over their careers
enables them to cut to the chase quite quickly. And if you see them
struggling early, it's often a major red flag.

Now, that said, you job as CEO or founder is to help them be successful.
I think taking the obligation personally and doing everything in your
power to make your new executive successful is part of your job. And
some founders don't do that. They just assume, "I've hired this person
and this person will get up to speed and start doing things." But I
think carving out 10, 15, maybe 20 percent of your calendar to help make
this new executive successful is an incredible investment actually, with
very high dividends.

Because there is some expense. If you're wrong, there is definitely some
pain and friction in replacing the person. That said, it's rarely fatal.
Lots of companies, lots of founders, have made mistakes at the executive
level, and upgraded. So for example, Mark Zuckerberg basically replaced
his entire management team starting in 2007. By 2007, Facebook was a
very successful platform and company. But there is literally nobody left
on the executive team that was an executive in 2007.

So clearly you can constantly look to improve. You don't have to find
the magical solution right away. If you aim for zero-defect hiring, it's
a little bit like zero-defect decision-making:
You're probably too conservative. We teach, and I subbscribe to the
view, that you want to pull the rigger on an initiative or an executive
hire when you're about 70 percent confident that it's the right
decision. Below 50 percent is kind of reckless. But if you go for 100
percent, you're waiting too long and you're probably losing candidates.
You false positive rate may be low, but your false negative rate is
going to be very bad, too. And a lot of people hiring don't track their
false negative rate of people they didn't get that they should have
gotten.

### Elad:
Are there any early signs of somebody not working out?
### Keith:
Yeah, usually the signs are that they don't take ownership of
decisions. Now that can be somewhat CEO- and founder-driven ,too.
Sometimes giving them license to start doing stuff requires a direct
conversation. They may be a little bit too nervous of rocking the boat.
So that's one, they're too passive, in effect.

The other is when people start circumnavigating around them  and back to
you with problems. That can be a sign of two things:
 - 1. It can be a sign that the executive isn't doing well. It can also
      be a sign that you made a political transformation, which isn't
      the easiest to disentangle. Obviously if you made a significan
      leadership change, there will be people who want to work within
      the old regime. And you may see some of that show up on your desk,
      so to speak. 
 
  - 2. But often it's also a sign that the executive isn't doing well
       when people are still coming to you to problem-sove in areas that
       the executive should be managing.

Ultimately, the way I grade people is pretty subtle. You can usually
look around an office, especially if it's an open office, and see who's
coming to people's desks. The people who are thriving- at any level,
junior to senior-tend to have people approaching their desk all the time.
Because it basically means that someone is going out of their way
because they believe that this person can be helpful. And so insofar as
people start going to this executive frequently, even people beyond the
organization that the person is managing start approaching them and
working with them and meeting with them, those are really positive
signals.

Another lesson that I learned from Brian Chesky- one way to think about
when to upgrade executives-is that a really great executive is about six
to twelve months ahead of the curve. They're already planning for acting
on things that are going to be important six to twelve months in the
future. A decent executive is delivering in real time, now to one to
three months in advance.

So you can start measuring your executives that way. Are they seeing
around the corners of whatever they need to? because not everything can
be changed overnight. So let's say you need fifty more engineers. You
can't hire fifty engineers tomorrow. But a great VP of engineering or
someone more senior may realize that the strategy requires us to have
fifty more engineers, or there or there's no way we're going to be able
to deliver on what we need to deliver. So they start recruiting a year
in advance. Thing like that.

### Elad:
They're really thing far ahead on the curve. I guess flip side of that,
though, is the exec who's five years ahead of where the company should be.
### Keith:
Yeah, that doesn't work. That's way I think the six to twelve months is
about right. One to three months, you can leave them in place but
they're probably not ideal. Six to twelve months is a superb executive.

And it may look flawless. You actually have to know what's going on very
precisely. To many people in the organization, the executive may just
look flawless, because they always have an answer. That's partially
because they're six to twelve months ahead in their own brain. They know
what's going to break. They know what's going to take time to fix. And
so by the time it starts showing up in the organization, they can say,
"Aha, we'll just do this, this, and this."

It's like great software architects for companies. When they have
scaling issues, they already have their silver bullets in their pocket.
They've already thought through, "If we went on Oprah today and got 10x
the amount of traffic concurrently, what would we do? I'd do this first.
I'd throw this CDN at it, then I would do this. And I'd have this
hardware over here. Servers take long lag time, so I'd have to have
those." They have all that stuff in the back of their brain.

It's just like that for business problems.
Under the worst possible circumstances or the best possible
circumstances that I foresee in the next three to twelve months, what
are the lead times associated with those various things? So I have those
tools at my disposal when I need them, and I can just snap my fingers.

### Elad:
How many mistakes can you tolerate in executive hiring? It is a certain
number per role? It is a certain number of executive mistakes per year?
### Keith:
I think it's about one. You're only going to add so many executives.
Most companies are probably adding one to three in a compressed period
of time. If you start having multiple mistakes, I think there may be
something wrong in your process. One is perfectly normal and natural.
But if you start seeing multiple, then I would think through, "What am I
doing wrong?"


### Elad:
And by "multiple" do you mean over a certain period of time?
Because every 12-18 months, many companies have to upgrade their team if
they're growing very fast. And some of those execs will continue to go
with that growth, but some will also break over time.
### Keith:
Let's say, in an eighteen-month or two-year time frame, one clear
mistake.
There's differences between a mistake and someone who doesn't scale. I
would separate those into two camps. So the mistake is, "Oh my god, I
just need to make a change. This wasn't the right decision." That's
something you only want to do about once.

The person who's not scaling to the new level of complexity of the
business and the size of the team and the different kinds of problems,
that' different-that's not necessarily a mistakes. You would possibly
have made the same decision if you had the same information you have
now. Whereas the mistake, if you had the same information, you would not
go back and make the same decision. So that one, you definitely want to
limit to one digit if you can.

The scale and upgrade is also a function of the growth rate of the
company. So the faster the company is growing, the velocity of that
change has a different slope. And the executive's learing curve may be
below that slope. Then you might have to make a change.


### Elad:
Now let's say that you've built out your executive team as a CEO.
There's a huge transition when going from 20 to 50 people to hungreds as
CEO, in terms of how you actually manage your own team.

How do you think a CEO should think of their team overall? Who should
report to the CEO, and who should not report to the CEO?
### Keith:
It's a great question, and I don't think there's a paradigmatic answer
that applies to all companies. It depends upon what the company does and
where what I call the seams in the business are.

Depending upon what type of decisions have trade-offs, you want
those-the trade-off decisions-to be made very infrequently by the CEO.
You don't want to have to be a tiebreaker every day, or every week even.
Once a month or once a quarter, it's fine to tiebreak between different
parts of the organization. But anything more frequent than that, you
need to unify the function underneath somebody. So that' one thing I
would look for.

Second thing is just skills. Different executives come with different
strengths and weaknesses. And sometimes, even if on paper you draw a
perfect org chart, an executive doesn't have a particular skill but is
awesome at other things. So you might make some compromises in your org
design to reflect their strengths.

For example, I have a friend who's a leading product guy who happens to
understand biz dev and partnerships really well. That' actually an
unusual combination. So if he was a senior executive, I would throw
partnerships and complicated negotiations with music studios or
something like that under product, even though that would not be the
standard design. He's just extraordinarily good at it. So there are times
when you can do that.

It does require a diagnosis of your organization. Also, what are the key
risks to the business? What are the most important two or three things?
You want the things that are one, two, or three to report to the CEO.
Fundamentally, what makes or breaks the company should probably be
reporting to the CEO. Because ultimately the CEO is responsible and
accountable for everything. So if you do the rank prioritization of what
gets you from point A to super successful, what are the two  or three
key levers? You want those two or three levers pretty close to your span
of control.

- "The people who are thriving-at any level, junior to senior-tend to
  have people approaching their desk all the time." - Keith Rabois

### Elad:
What do you think is the right number of reports? Obviously it's
contextual and it varies by the skillset and all the rest. I'm just
curious roughly what you think is a ballpark.
### Keith:
The traditional advice derives from High Output Management-you know Andy
Grove in 1982-which is at most seven. Or five. Five or seven. The reason
why is that you want to do a certain number of 1:1s at a weekly pace,
and you want to do about one a day. So that means five or seven or
something like that. I think if you can get down to three to five,
that's ideal. If you have to go four to seven, that's definitely
possible to scale. So anywhere in those rangers can work.

### Elad:
I feel like a lot of the executive teams I see these days have a dozen
people reporting into the CEO.
### Keith:
That's crazy. That's totally crazy. That being said, you may have to
deal with that for a period of time as you're recruiting someone to
unify some functions.

For example, there was a point in time at Square where I had somewhere
between 11 and 13. And, you know, Jack was furious with me about it. My
board was furious with me about it. And I was totally aware that it was
not a sustainable situation. But rather than artificially unify things,
I wanted to find people that would starting bring together some of those
direct reports. And I eventually did. But I figured rather than make a
mistake and have someone where they wouldn't be able to create value, I
would deal with it on a temporary basis. But I would urgently be
recruiting.

So, I think you can have periods of time measured in months, not
years-where you violate the rules. But that becomes your number-one
priority: to stop violating those rules.

### Elad:
I think the biggest fear that founders have when consolidating their
teams is flight risk. They think that if they layer somebody or somebody
else comes in, employees will leave. What do you views as the best ways
to mitigate that? Do you view that as a real issue, or is it okay if
that person ends up leaving?
### Keith:
It is definite concern, and I think it is the biggest reason a lot of
founders procrastinate. The standard I was taught which I subscibe to,
is you only want to layer someone if the person above them is clearly
superior.

One of the techniques if you have too many direct reports is to move
somebody to reports to another person that's already in the
organization. The problem is, unless there's a clear separation between
them, it just doesn't work. It's not fair, and it will crate flight
risk. But if there is a clear separation, where the performance is
differentiate enough-looking at both the way you measure it and how
other people perceive the two executives-then I think that can be a
smart move. And then you don't have the organ-transplant issue of
bringing in a new executive. So that's possible, but there has to be a
significant delta in performance. If it's even a debatable delta in
performance, it's not a good idea to ask somebody to report to someone
else.

If you're going to hire someone externally, I think generally the way to
retain people who are performing and who you really want to retain is to
hire someone that they can learn from. And if that's true, a lot of
well-motivated people will stay. Where they don't perceive that they can
learn from the new executive, it may be better for them, psychologically
or professionally, to go somewhere else and get on a steep learning curve
again. So it does depend. But I don't think it's a reason to avoid
hiring.

At the end of the day, if one of those 11 or 12 executives is so
valuable to you, you can do a couple things. One is to put them on a
mentoring path and try to teach them how to accelerate their growth so
that they can handle the larger function. But it depends on the
company's velocity whether that's possible. It also requires you to have
a network or mentors that you can throw at this problem, and you can't
do it with multiple executives at the same time. So if I had a
high-potential VP of finance and I really wanted to groom him to be CFO,
it's possible to do that rather than layering him behind the CFO. But it
take a lot of energy. I can't do that with my director of product, my
director of engineering, and my VP of finance at the same time.

### Elad:
How should the CEO run their own team meeting?
### Keith
That's a great question, because I think everybody gets frustrated by
this topic at some point. One of the lessons I've learned is the
executive team meeting is not necessarily just for CEO. It's actually
often more important and more valuable to the executives that
participate in the meeting. They get to be on a stage with their peers.
They get to understand what's going on laterally in the organization so
they can make smarter and better decisions.

The meeting may not be particularly insightful to you, because you're
doing 1:1s with all these executives and functional organizations. You
may know everything that comes up in this meeting, and you probably
should. But it's the debate or dialogue or the lateral sharing of
information that makes that meeting constructive.

I think a lot of CEOs get frustrated because the meeting isn't  adding
value to them. But they forget that it's adding value to the three of
four of give other people there. And if you can make your executives
more successful with an hour of your time or two hours of your time,
that's totally worth doing. It's a classic high-leverage activity.

- "The way to retain people who are performing and who you really want
  to retain is to hire someone that they can learn from" - Keith Robois

### Elad:
What do you think is a great agenda?
### Keith:
I think limiting it to about three topics. There's information sharing,
but then there's discussion and debate topics that are actionable. And I
think people's attention span sort of wanes if you have too many debates
at the same time.

Some organizations allocate a full day to this, and they go very deep.
I'm not sure that's a great idea. It does depend upon how tightly
aligned your organization needs to be function well. I tend to think one
to three hours is more than sufficient, especially if you have tools in
place-metrics tools, KPI, dashboards - so that everybody really
understands the business before they're even shown up to the meeting.

In that case, I tend to prefer circulating notes the night before. They
can be bullet point-style, using the three Ps-
- Plan
- Progress
- Problems
 and shared in advance, so that people's brains are chewing on what's
 going on. And then there's a couple discussion topic that affect the
 organization, or where the CEO wants broader input because he or she
 doesn't actually know what the right answer is.

### Elad:
The other thing I've noticed is that early on in the life of a company,
a lot of topics exist in the one executive team meeting. And then later
they start to get split out. There's rev force and metrics meeting that
run separately, which includes a subset of the executives. Plus there's
broader team to talk about progress in the business, which may differ
from some of those strategic topics in the executive team meeting.
### Keith:
Yeah , sometimes you separate out strategic topics that are going to be
controversial, or topics that don't necessarily have right answer but
are a question of trade-offs. That's different from an operating review,
which is: What are our current KPIs? How well are we doing? What's the
rate of progress? What are the different things we should be doing?
Sometimes you'll have the first meeting run by the CEO and the second
meeting run by the COO or equivalent officer.

## DO YOU NEED A COO?
Ten years ago, if you were the founder of a high-growth company it was
reasonably likely that your investors would want to bring in "adult
supervision" as CEO to run your company. This is shifted, in recent
years. to a slate of COO hires, following the example set by Facebook
with the successful run of Sheryl Sandberg. It is now much more likely
for a breakout high-growth company to hire COO to support the company
founders, rather than a CEO to replace them.

Box, Facebook, Stripe, Square ,Twitter and Yelp are all companies that
chose at one time or another to hire COO as a complement to the
founders, rather than replace the CEO with a "gray-haired" professional
operator"

## WHY A COO?
Hiring a COO is not about adding a title to your org chart, but rather
finding the background and experience you are looking for. Optimally,
you want someone who will come in to complement, oprationalize, and
execute your vision as a founder. Many technical or product-focuses
founders want to (and should) remain focused on the product and overall
market strategy. In parallel, the COO would build out and manage areas
that the founders lack interest or experience in, or simply don't have
the bandwidth to oversee.

The responsibilities of a CEO, for example, might include:
 - 1. Adding executive bandwidth.
    The COO can serve as a business partner for technical or
    product-focusted founders.
 - 2. Scaling the company.
    High-growth companies have special needs around scaling and
    implementing simple processes
        (e.g. recruiting infrastructure, coportate governance, etc.)

 - 3. Building out the executive team and organizational scaffold.
    COOs are often responsible for executives and teams in areas
    founders don't understand well (e.g. finance, accounting  and sale).
    They can help in screening and hiring executives for product,
    engineering and marketing as well.

 - 4. Taking on the areas founders don't have time for, and poorly
      suited for, or don't want to focus on.
      Typically, a COO takes on responsibility for ongoing management of
      the "business side" (corporate development/M&A, sale, HR,
      recruiting, etc.) while the founders continue to focus on product
      design, and engineering. There are some counterexamples of this
      too where the CEO want to be sales focused and hires in a
      product-centric COO.
 - 5. Shaping the culture for the next phase of the company's life.
    Sheryl Sandberg has impacted how Facebook is run across organization
    by, for example, bringing a culture of people development and
    managerial excellent.

## WHY NOT A COO?
All growing companies need to build out their executive teams, as well
as the ability and expertise to scale. That can be done by hiring or
promoting a set of people who, in sum, complement the founders and allow
the company to grow rapidly and effectively. It is not necessary that
one of these team members have the COO title. For example, prior to Poly
vore's acquisition by Yahoo, the company's CFO owned multiple area
beyond traditional finance.

Additionally, the COO title sets a very high bar for who you hire for
the role. You can't really hire above the COO later like you could with
a VP, which means losing some flexibility in your future organizational
evolution as the company goes from, say, 100 to 5,000 people. If the COO
is out of her depth, she often won't accept a demotion to VP and will
leave instead.

## HOW DO YOU CHOOSE A COO?
For COO, you optimally want someone strong enough to be CEO of a
company, or at least someone with solid general management or key
functional experience. Sheryl interviewed for other CEO roles before
accepting COO of Facebook. Similarly, Box's COO, Dan Levin, was a CEO or
president of two companies and a GM at Intuit before joining BOX. You
want someone so excited by your company's vision and opportunity that
she is willing to give up some of the perceived upside of being a
general manager or CEO elsewhere to join your company.

Additional criteria to look for are:
 - 1. Maturity and lack of ego.
    Lool for a seasoned executive who is willing to suppresss her own
    ego to partner with, and execute, a founder's vision.
 - 2. Chemistry with founders & CEO.
    If the COO cannot mind-meld with the company founders, confilcts and
    a bad ending to the relationship are on their way.
 - 3. Past experience scaling a company or organization.
    Managing a 1,000-person team is very different from growing
    something from 20 to 1,000 people. Look for someone who has dealt
    with hypergrowth or rapid growth in the past if you need help
    scaling quickly (versus just building out functions).
    Claire Hughes Johnson scaled operations and business teams at Google
    before doing so at Stripe.
 - 4. Entrepreneurial mindset.
    Optimally, you want someone who has both operated at scale and
    worked in a startup environment (or scaled something from scratch at
    at a larger company).

 - 5. Functional expertise.
    A COO hire should have previously run a reasonable subset of the
    functions you want her to own initially at your company.
 - 6. Ability to hire.
    This person will be building out a chunk of your company's
    organizational skeleton. You need someone who can hire well and
    manage executives herself.
 - 7. Someone you can learn from.
    As a first-time founder or manager, you want a COO who can teach you
    about management or other areas. Bill gate gamously said that he
    often hired senior executives so that he could learn from them.
 - 8. Process focus.
    The optimal COO candidate can bring lightweight processes or best
    practices from other companies, and be smart about how to craft new
    ones for your company.
    Finally, when hiring a COO, you should have a clear sense of what
    responsibilities your want to keep as founder (e.g., design product,
    marketing, engineering) and what you are willing to truly delegate
    (e.g., business development, sales, corporate development, finance,
    HR, operations,etc.). Without that clarity, you may be setting
    yourself up for failure from the start. You should also remember
    that a COO does not necessarily need to run everything you don't.
    For example, at Microsoft, Gates ran product, Steve Ballmer ran
    sales, and Bob Herbold as COO ran finance, HR, marketing, PR, and
    other areas.

I don't think every company needs a COO; a well-rounded executive or
leadership team may allow you to do without one. However, if you do
decide that you need the management chops and experience of a
COO-caliber candidate, proceed with the hiring process carefully and
deliberately.

- "You want someone who will come in to complement, operationalize, and
  execute your vision as a founder." - Elad Gil


