# Financing and valuation

For the first 40 years of the technology industry, high-growth, breakout
companies would go public (IPO) much earlier in their lifecycle. Intel
went public two years after incorporation, Amazon went it was three
years old, Apple at four, and Cisco at the ripe old age of five.
Microsoft was an outlier and long in the tooth when it went public after
~10 years in 1986 (largely on the back of its 1980 deal with IBM for
MS-DOS)

In the 2000s, the timeline to IPO lengthened significantly with some
companies taking up to a decade or more to go public. With this shift in
time horizons has come a shift in financing strategies and capital
sources to fund them. Investors who used to invest in young public
technology companies have been forced to invest in private companies
instead. Long time horizons to liquidity has created large secondary
markets for common stock. And finally, the shrinking number of public
breakout companies (and public breakout founder role models) has created
a founder generation skeptical of going public.

In this section we cover new sources of capital for late stage
financings, secondary stock sales and tenders, and initial public
offerings. I am not a lawyer and this is not intended to be legal advice
so talk with your attorney about these topics.

## LATE-STAGE FINANCING: WHO SHOULD YOU BE TALKING TO?
As your company grows, the range of investors who can fund your next
round shifts. While some venture firms (such as Benchmark, Tru Bentures,
and Upfront) focus largely on series A financings, many traditional 
venture firms have either expanded their scope to include later stages
or raised stand-alone growth fund to fuel later-stage high-growth
companies. This includes funds such as 8vc, Accel, Andreessen Horowitz, Bessemer, CRV, DFJ, Felicis, Foresite, Founders Fund, General Catalyst, Greylock, Google Ventures, Index Ventures, Khosla Ventures, KPCB, Lightspeed, Matrix, Maverick, Menlo, Mayfield, NEA, Norwest, Redpoint, Scale, Sequoia, Shasta, SignalFire, Social+Capital, Spark, Sutter Hill Ventures, Thrive Capital, Trinity, USV, Venrock, and others.

In general, the larger the fund the more likely they are to do
late-stage investments.

In parallel, there is a whole class of later-stage funds that have
traditionally focused on the growth stage such as Capital G(Google
Capital), GGV, GCVG, IVP, insignt, Meritech, Summit, and the like. Newer
funds, like DST, Tiger, VY have also emerged to take an
entreneur-friendly approac to late-stage investing.

A more recent development over the last few years is the emergence of
public market investors, or family offices, as direct investors in
later-stage companies. This includes firms like BlackRock, T. Rowe Price, Fidelity, and Wellington, as well as hedge funds like Point72 and TriplePoint Capital. Some hedge funds, like Viking and Matrix
