# A Message from Elad
## Welcome to the High Growth Handbook
Mon Sep 7

A lot has been written about the early stages of establishing a
technology startup, from fundraising and searching for product/market
fit to early team building and M&A exits. But what happens next?

Very little tactical advice exists about scaling a company from 10 or 20
employees to thousands.

Startup survival numbers explain this discrepancy. While thousands of
startups are founded each year, most die or are bought well before they
reach the high-growth stage (sometimes called "hypergrowth," "scaling,"
or "breaking out").
As a result, while many people have experience starting a company, very
few have experience scaling one.
As a result, while many people have experience starting a company, very
few have experience scaling one.

Just as there are common patterns that early-stage companies follow,
later-stage high-growth companies also face similar issues over and
over. Every high-growth company eventually needs to tackle the same set
of challenges around organizational structure, late-state fundraising,
culture, hiring executives for roles the founders don't understand,
buying other companies, and more. Sine most founders are dealing with
these issues for the first time-and navigating many of them
simultaneously-hypergrowth tends to feels like a hyperstresssful roller
coaster.

Since 2004, I've participated in nearly every stage of the startup life
cycle, as either an opertor or an investor. I joined Google somewhere
between 1500 and 200 employees and left when it was at 15,000, close to
four year later. I then started a company, Mixer Labs, that Twitter
acquired when Twitter was around 90 people. As a vice president at
Twitter, my job was to scale the company from 100 to over 1,000 people.
I left two-and-a-half years later, when Twitter hit roughly 1,500
employees, and then stuck around as an advisor to the CEO and COO for
another year, by which point the company had reached roughly 2,500
people. At Twitter, I was involved at various times with product,
platform internationalization, user growth, M&A, recruiting,
organizational process, culture, and other aspects of scaling.

I am also an investor in a number of breakout or high-growth companies:
Airbnb, Coinbase, Gusto, Instacart, OpenDoor, Pinterest, Stripe, Square,
Wish and others. In some cases I have helped companies in meaningful
ways, in others I have been a mere observer along for the ride.

I have found that the same patterns unfold across various high-growth
companies. Founders, CEOs, and executives consistently come to me with
similar questions and issues as they scale their companies.

I'm writing this book to answer those questions and capture  the key
lessons of my experiences. In parallel, I have been publishing a blog
for a long time-and many of the chapters here started as blog posts, and
I will keep adding to it over time.

The advice presented here is meant to be painfully tactical and to avoid
the platitudes you will get from investors who have never run or scaled
a company. My hope is that the book will be helpful to founders, CEOs,
nad employees who are facing hypergrowth and scaling for the first time.

All startup advice is only useful in context, and I am a firm believer
that only good generic startup advice is that is that there is no good
generic startup advice. So take what is written here with a grain of
salt-it is very much one person's experiences, not a rulebook for what
is correct for every company in every context.

If the high-growth stage at our company feels like a chaotic, scary,
stressful, shitshow, don't worry. It feels that way for everyone the
first time around. Buckle up and enjoy the ride!





